this is a critical conversation around
truly the future of humanity but we
don't like to talk about this this
report is absolutely shocking this is a
crisis and young men are struggling so I
sat down with two leading voices on
societal issues to discuss the rise of
millions of lonely addicted men and the
most important question is how do we fix
this so let's start with this graph it
shows that young women are now out
earning young men it is true we have
given women so many tools to achieve but
now boys are being left behind and the
number of males aged 16 to 24 who are
not in education employment has
increased by staggering 40% and the data
I've seen is that when the woman in the
relationship starts making more money
they become twice as likely to get
divorced because traditionally women
seek Partners who have more economic or
social status than they do and emotional
intelligence is the new currency in
dating but these guys were raised not to
be emotionally intelligent but to be a
provider that a lack of male involvement
in kids lives is a big factor leading to
this and once they lose a male role
model they become much more likely to
engage in criminal activity and so we
are just creating a lot of these angry
young single men who are saying well
this is rigged against me we actually
asked some of audience to write in and
this guy Jeffrey wrote in and said my
entire life I have never felt like I was
good enough like I could never earn my
place in society it's devastating but
something that's controversial I got
push back on I think the secret weapon
for men that they don't Leverage is to I
want to hear a woman's perspective on it
honestly what I would do is
this has always blown my mind a little
bit 53% of you that listen to the show
regularly haven't yet subscribed to the
show so could I ask you for a favor
before we start if you like the show and
you like what we do here and you want to
support us the free simple way that you
can do just that is by hitting the
Subscribe button and my commitment to
you is if you do that then I'll do
everything in my power me and my team to
make sure that this show is better for
you every single week we'll listen to
your feedback we'll find the guest that
you want me to speak to and we'll
continue to do what we do thank you so
much
[Music]
Lost
Boys in March 2025 the center of social
justice released this report which is
sent a couple of shock waves across the
UK especially across the media and just
to give you a little bit of a sort of
preface and some context on what this
report says at the start of the report
Andy cook who's the CEO of the report
says we listen to those working on the
front line the teachers the youth
workers the Charities and the parents
who day in day out see the of young
people and in recent years they've been
telling us the same thing something is
going on with our boys and because of
this they wrote this report called The
Lost Boys which looks at all of the the
different facets of why young men are
struggling and in this report they say
boys are struggling in education they're
more likely to take their own lives
they're finding it more difficult to
find stable work and far too often
they're cour in crime the numbers don't
lie something has shifted and we cannot
ignore it any longer it's not just about
about and youate or online influences
these are symptoms not the cause the
deeper truth is that too many boys are
growing up without the guidance
discipline and purpose they need to
survive and there's some frankly
horrific graphs which actually sent the
CEO of my company A lady called Georgie
um into quite an emotional state she she
texted me and told me she was crying
look looking at some of these graphs
which we'll talk about today but this is
a subject that I know both of you know
very very well so I'm Keen to get into
exactly why this is happening and what
we can do about it but the preface this
discussion to understand where you both
come from and the perspective you have
Logan who are you yes and what do you do
I'm a behavioral scientist term dating
coach so that means that I take all the
lessons from the field of Behavioral
Science how we make decisions and then I
apply them to the field of relationship
science which is how love works and so
I'm really passionate about this topic
because for a long time I've found that
wherever I go people say oh I know all
these great single women do you know any
great single guys and I just thought oh
okay maybe that's always been happening
but when I actually dug into the data I
saw that we are truly in a dating crisis
right now and there is a huge mating gap
between the type of men that women are
looking for and the type of men that are
available this is a critical
conversation around truly the future of
humanity because marriage rates are down
that means birth rates are down and so
this conversation is extremely
important and what sort of reference
points do you Drew up on because you've
got some sort of unique access to data
right right so I work at hinge for the
last five years and so I accessed to
tons of data there around how daters are
dating now how daters are dating
differently what sets successful daters
apart and then I also have conducted my
own research for this conversation so I
sent out a survey to thousands of my
newsletter subscribers and people were
very excited to talk about this and I've
conducted a lot of new research that
I'll be sharing for the first time on
this topic um so I make my living at
data and trying to come up with insights
I spent most of my career looking at
data to try and make add shareholder
value and then I have the luxury now
focusing on things I'm really interested
in and I just sort of stumbled upon data
about it reflects that the cohort that
is ascended fastest globally is women
and this is a wonderful thing and a huge
Collective Victory and the group that
has fallen furthest fastest is men in
Western markets and the data was just so
overwhelming and also I was close to
being one of these men I didn't have a
lot of economic or romantic um prospects
when I was a young man but there were
programs and an environment where I
could be successful and I worry that
some of the Temptations of Technology
the economic
Trends uh had they
been where they are now then I could
have very easily ended up as statistic
so I just sort of relate to these
problems I'm Keen to understand from
your perspectives
what do you think like the first Domino
that falls in a young man's life or a
young boy's life that causes the
outcomes we're talking about today like
what is where is the first place to
start so the research I've looked at in
Richard Reeves from the American insute
of boys in medicine good research here
the the point of
failure if you reverse engineered issues
to is when a boy loses a male role model
and that is in the US we have the second
most single family uh parent homes
behind Sweden and what's interesting is
that in single parent homes girls
actually have similar outcomes similar
rates of High School attendance income
rates of self harm boys once they lose a
male role model become much more likely
to be incarcerated engage in criminal
activity harm themselves it ends up that
while being physically stronger boys are
emotionally and mentally much weaker so
the loss of a male role model is I would
argue kind of the first point of failure
that predicts that a kid aort is going
to struggle and that has impacts on
Family Court economic policy and just
general in our general zeis in our
society
where men need to step up if we want
better men we need to be better men we
need to step into that void another one
that Richard Reeves talks about is that
there's not enough men in the education
system so I believe when Tim Waltz was a
teacher one out of three teachers in his
school was a man but now it's like 24%
and so where do kids spend most of their
time in school and who's teaching them
mostly not men and it's and you think
well women can be fantastic teachers and
it's true but after school programs not
as many coaches that t typically are M
male not as much compensation so they
don't get rewarded for being coaches and
if you just think about it logically who
ises a teacher Champion a teacher
Champion is someone that reminds them of
themselves when they were a kid so and
also just look at the there's incredible
bias I would argue against males in
school a boy is twice as likely to be
suspended on a behavior adjusted basis
twice as likely to be suspended for the
exact same infraction is a girl five
times as likely if it's a black boy and
so and once you're suspended twice it
probably means you're not going to
college in addition look at the
behaviors we promote in school sit still
be a pleaser be organized raise your
hand you basically just described a girl
and so and also quite frankly a lot of
the jobs that require tertiary education
attainment there's more women now in law
school and medical school and quite
frankly good for them they're just
better at that they're better students
they deserve to make more money they
deserve it but the reality is it has
huge ramifications when we no longer
have wood Auto or metal shop they've
gone away right so those used to be a
past to do some middle- class jobs
they've been replaced by computer
science and so what are the paths for
the two-thirds of males that aren't
going to end up with a traditional
liberal arts college degree right and
just to add a few more stats to that so
we know that 70% of valid tans in the US
are female and women are much more
likely to be in the top 10% of their
class but then on the SAT men and women
or young men and women earn the same
scores so there's definitely something
happening in schools that is
prioritizing the female experience or
that women are better at that we
definitely want to celebrate the success
of women I think the changes that have
happened over the last 50 years are
incredible and I feel like I'm a
beneficiary of that and so is my
daughter if you look at all of the books
that my daughter was given when she was
born they're about great women in
history you can be anything dream big
little one and so I feel like we have
given women so many tools to achieve and
in many ways those have been manifested
but now boys are being left behind and
so this isn't a zero some game I was
nervous about coming on here because I
thought people would say she's a male
apologist she doesn't see how much women
are still struggling I think everyone is
struggling I think life is hard but
what's happening right now is we need to
have empathy for young men and we need
to bring them up because this isn't just
a problem about young men men and
patriarchy doesn't just hurt women a lot
of people think about the patriarchy as
something that prizes men and hurts
women but when there's a very narrow
definition of men everyone is hurt by
that and that's all the research that
I've done is over and over seeing women
feel like they are not enough good men
to date and men feel like they're being
held to a ridiculous standard of holding
both sides of the coin being feminine
and
masculine it turns out as you were
speaking I was looking at the stats
around fatherless homes and it turns out
that there has been a significant
increase in the amount of young boys
being raised without a father present
about 25% live without a biological step
or adoptive father according to the
National Fatherhood Initiative in the US
has the world's highest rate of children
living in a single parent household and
92% of the time that's with the mother
alone and in 1968 only 11% of children
lived without lived with only their
mother compared to 21% in 2020 so that's
doubled in the last 50 odd
years which is pretty pretty staggering
and then obviously the consequence of
that as Scott described is that
individuals from farther absent homes
were 300% more likely to carry drugs to
carry guns to deal drugs um and all of
and there's this huge plethora of mental
health consequences if you don't have a
father in the home I mean what do we do
about that and like where are the
fathers yeah where are the role where
are they
going well it's it's complicated
there's there's male abandonment there's
just no getting around it but also going
back to Family Court sometimes the
courts in the finan you know our economy
make it difficult for a man to stay
involved in the kids's lives and
also um you know family courts getting
better at saying all right the kids I
mean just a personal anecdote I uh have
a friend who recently has gone through
divorce two daughters very much wants to
be involved in their lives they're 13
and 15 year old girl and quite frankly
dad's there on the weekends and they got
their own thing going on and they don't
necessarily make dad a priority and
dad's not around for what I call the
garbage time and that is what I found
with my boys is the moments of
serendipity and connection happen
randomly when you're taking them to
school when you're out in the back you
know jumping around or playing whatever
it is these garbage moments and when
you're not in the household for whatever
reason there's just there isn't that
much garbage time and I think slowly but
surely they lose sometimes connection
with their kid there's also there's
something weird going on I'm curious
Logan if youve got date on this but you
have a one-year-old daughter right
you're G to be amazed when my 14y old
boy had a Halloween party and the boys
are like cute they're dopes they're boys
there's some 14-y old girls who look
like they could be the junior senator
from Pennsylvania they're 5'1 they're
articulate hello Mr Galloway how are you
with a love home the boys are like I
don't know and and biologically girls
mature faster their prefrontal cortex is
18 months ahead of a boys an
18-year-old girl or woman is competing
against a 16 and a half year old when
she's competing against an 18yearold and
they're even finding that it's getting
worse that women or girls are starting
to menstruate earlier and boys testicles
are descending later so the Gap in
maturity biological Gap they think might
even be growing and they don't know if
it's p
pesticides but when I meet my uh eighth
graders colleagues there's a huge
difference between yeah between us
between the boys and the girls and
Richard's one of Richard's suggestions
is that we red shirt boys that we hold
them a year back that boys start
kindergarten at 6 whereas girls start at
five so the research in the UK shows
that 70% of girls are ready to start
school at age five but many fewer boys
boys are capable of starting at that age
in terms of Readiness and so if you were
to hold boys back then they might be on
more equal playing field for those
critical moments of four to five of 13
to 14 where the brains really develop at
a different
stage I want to talk about that sort of
Early Education experience and how it
can be adapted but also just like if the
environment of the classroom is right
for boys as we were talking about the
point about fathers at listeners as well
I found this graph which is also pretty
shocking and it it goes into what you
something you said Scott it basically
shows that the absence of a father on a
boy causes depressive symptoms but the
absence of a father on a young girl
doesn't cause the same depressive
symptoms which means that the absence of
a father for a boy drastically increases
their chance of being depressed whereas
if for a girl it doesn't there's a lot
of other graphs that look like that in
terms of women and young girls are just
actually a lot more resilient in
childhood so if you are in foster care
as a young woman you have less negative
outcomes than young men and so there's
this theory in parenting of is your a
child an orchid or a dandelion and so
the Orchid really needs very particular
situations to grow they need a certain
amount of light they need to be watered
in a particular way and they'll thrive
in some situations and they will not
thrive in others whereas a dandelion can
really survive in many situations and so
women young girls tend to be more
dandelion in childhood and so that's why
when you have a boy and a girl both in
negative situations the boy is more
negatively impacted boys are just weaker
there's a crazy stat I read that two uh
15-year-olds a boy and a girl both
sexually molested and to be clear
they're equally heinous crimes but the
boy who's sexually molested is six to 10
times more likely to kill himself later
in life it ends up that boys are just
less
resilient do you think there's somehow
more of a stigma there like I wonder why
that's talk about it uncomfortable feel
there's inia there's a lack I mean I
think just until a few years ago the
social incentives were to never speak
about it right I was on lwis house
podcast and he just openly said I was
sexually abused as a child and it was so
shocking for me wow to hear this big
handsome guy yeah I don't think he would
have said it 10 or 20 years ago I think
people would have assumed that it was
his fault it made him less of a man so I
I think a lot of that has hopefully
gotten better but we just have to
acknowledge boys
mentally and emotionally are weaker than
girls Lewis H didn't admit that until a
couple of years ago is that right so
he's lived with that his whole life and
wow it wasn't until he was I think
having dysfunction his relationships and
a few other things had happened that he
decided he wanted to say it publicly for
the first time which again feeds into
your point we actually um asked some of
our audience to write in and one of the
people that wrote in was a teacher in a
primary SL preschool and she said to me
she was an Anon teacher in Germany she
says every year it seems like more and
more children always boys have this new
energy to destroy the classroom dynamics
these boys almost always have two things
in common a lack of boundaries at home
an unsupervised unlimited access to all
kinds of content on the internet EG porn
their perception of what is okay and
what is Right becomes completely
distorted I have tried so many things
and every year it's becoming an even
bigger challenge
young boys in school so one proposal is
to delay education for boys put them in
education later is the classroom itself
a problem like they're sitting in school
listening to someone speak at you
someone proposed to me on this podcast
before that boys need more sort of
practical play and the classroom isn't
designed for that I wasn't sure if that
was well in in single sex boy school
they end up with double the amount of
recess ton and that is they they have I
I equate boys to dogs a happy dog is a
tired dog and if it's not tired if it
doesn't get to run it's going to cause
trouble and I feel the same way about
boys so in these schools where they
decide what's best for the boys there's
usually more exercise and more free play
and more rough housing co-ed schools and
you're also seeing I think with boys I
mean there's just
we by even acknowledging that men play a
critical Ro role in boys' lives a few
years ago that was seen as sexist what
you mean what you're saying moms can't
do this and I can just tell you there
are certain moments when my partner
needs me to weigh in I don't know if
it's the depth of my voice my physical
size the way they relate to me the fact
that I'm not you need
Dad or that's what I found especially
with boys they need almost like that
that that not physical
intimidation but it's almost like they
begin tuning out their mom over time I
mean they're incredibly close to their
mother that looked to her for n ing when
they really have a problem I find the go
to Mom but they will constantly test the
boundaries constantly and I think a lot
of a lot of single mothers quite frankly
with boys just can't keep a lid on that
kid they can't control the kid so and I
think you're finding at schools when
there's no male kind of I don't know
involvement or that that I don't know
what I'll call physical presence and
then you add on this dopa
uh machine that they get used to
squeezing a dopa bag a hundred times a
day as they need it and then you take
the dopa bag away they're just more
prone to emotional outbursts I'm curious
if you've done any research around why
that is that emotional Outburst more
common among boys than girls I haven't
done that research but I am imagining
that there's moms out there that are
raising Boys on their own and they might
be like yes it is hard but what do I do
right and so for that boy who isn't
taught a lot of guys in school and isn't
in the Boy Scouts which doesn't exist
anymore or doesn't have Big Brothers Big
Sisters like what does that Mom do so
with that you talk brought a Boy Scouts
in America there's there's Scouts for
America and it can be boys and girls
right but Girl Scouts have their own
single sex but boy scouts aren't allowed
to have their own single sex so the
question is all right you know what do
you do and I think that we need a
societal zeist that says immediately if
there's no longer a male involved we
have to get other men involved and
acknowledge that that's not being sexist
that that's you know that that's
important that you get men involved and
I think so I came from a single parent
household raised in by a single
immigrant mother who lived and died a
secretary light of my life as soon as my
dad was gone and then he had to move
away for work she got other men involved
in my life and I had wonderful men
involved in my life I had a stock Brer
neighbor down the hall came in with his
girlfriend and said you want to go hor
horseback riding you take me horseback
riding I don't don't know if men would
be comfortable doing that uh in today's
age so getting men involved in their
lives after school programs Boy Scouts I
had a lot of wonderful men I used to go
camping you know and there were men
everywhere involved in my life and I I
worri that a lot of those institutions
yeah and also there's a reticence and a
hesitance for men to get involved in a
boy's life that isn't theirs for fear
they're going to be perceived as
something's wrong with them I was
thinking that so if we have less men in
the home raising the children and then
we go to school and the stat says that
72% of teachers in middle school are
women as well there's no men at school
either it's no wonder that boys are
struggling so severely at such a young
early early age for so many reasons
because one would assume that they're
being
socialized in the same way as
girls I'm seeing I've got a mother at
home don't have a father I've got women
at school don't have male teachers I
mean that's a controversial thing to say
I'm sure it used to be but I think
people are waking up a little bit now we
need more male teachers there's more
there's more female fighter pilots per
capita the male kindergarten teachers
there's just there's an absence there
are some boys not some there are
millions of boys in America whose first
male role model is a prison guard and
there just no men in their lives after
school programs being cancelled no women
very very few men K through 12 dad's not
around there are there are Community
there are literally communities you read
articles about it where it's like where
are the men yeah that's so I'm trying to
figure out where are
they online doesn't look like they're in
work they're not in college the reality
is they're just AR for a lot of reasons
a host of reasons male a lack of male
involvement in kids lives is a big big
factor leading this there are other
factors there's socioeconomic factors
there's biological factors there's a
lack of vocational training there's
Outsourcing of many of the jobs that
made a a man's path to the middle class
viable you want to talk about the UK a
big problem is a lack of growth yeah
there's just not there's not a lot of
income opportunities for a young man
who's not exceptional and what we've
seen in the US is essentially if you
look at our economic policies and
college it's never been better to be
remarkable like if you're in the top 10%
if you're high school class you're going
to make more money than the top 10% did
102 30 if you end up at Google you're
you're going to make a kid at Google
who's amazing computer science the can
make millions of dollars by the time the
30 but I can prove to every one of us
mathematically that 99% of our children
are not in the top 1% and our economic
policies have basically said that school
and college is meant to identify a super
class of 1centers that we're going to
try and turn into billionaires instead
of figuring out the infrastructure in
the programs to ensure the bottom 90
have a shot of being at the top 10 and
one of the staff is just
around uh College acceptance when I
applied to UCLA the acceptance rate was
76% now it's 9% I was unremarkable for
whatever reason prefrontal cortex single
mother whatever you want to call it but
back then they had the mission and the
charge to let in unremarkable kids and
that's no longer the case because
America's superpowers are optimism and
we all believe our kids in that top 1%
and the reality is they're not or people
think I like an economy where you can
make a billion dollars because that's
going to be me one day so they have
ignored the fact that we are crowding
more and more prosperity and opportunity
into the remarkable and I for me it
comes down to what is what do we want in
America in UK do we want a super class
of billionaires or do we want a society
in an operating system that gives
unremarkable people a shot of being in
the top
10% uh it's become win or take all and
we have purposely created a set of
Economic and education policies that
Crow a massive amount of prosperity into
the top 1% and we have opted for it
because we believe we have a shot at
being in that top 1% I love that because
I think the winner takes all applies to
a lot of different things so I bet the
top 10% of Americans now are healthier
than they've ever been while the rest of
the country has never been healthy best
healthare in the world if you're in the
top 10% yeah or in marriages the top
marriages today are the best marriages
of all time yet we have declining
marriage rates so we're nearing the
lowest rate of marriage that we've ever
had in American history so most people
are or fewer people are getting married
but if you're you know two college
graduates who get married in your 30s
you might have an even stronger Bond
than people in the past but that is a
small group at the top marriages become
a luxury item yeah if you're in the top
Quintel of income earning households
you're you're 75% get married if you're
in the bottom quintile only 25 if you're
in the lower quintile of income in men
only one in four chance of getting
married and this has huge impact on our
society because we know that married
people are healthier they're wealthier
they live longer when couples are
married they actually have lower rates
of child poverty and so this has huge
implications for our society if we're
having fewer marriages especially when
you think about having fewer
babies I am I want to get into dating
and and marriage and love on all those
things I one of the things that really
shocked me as I Was preparing for this
conversation was this graph MH because
this isn't the narrative that we hear
can you both see this one this is the
reverse gender gap oh yeah gender pay
Gap graph and it shows that young women
and out out earning young men that's not
what I heard in terms of like if I log
onto social media we've been trying to
fight the gender pay Gap but to see that
young men are now falling behind both in
education both in unemployment young men
face higher unemployment nearly twice
the rate of women looking at the early
developmental stats this graph was
horrifying I like actually couldn't
believe that was true
that young young boys are struggling so
much in education but then to see also
that it's reflected in so that graph
shows that boys age 16 to 24 are making
10% Less in full-time employment than
women and so it is true that we're
seeing a reverse income graph but what
we do need to talk about is even when
women make more in their 20s that
changes around age 30 they have kids
when they have kids right it's like this
meteorite hits and there's this huge
burden placed on women and I think
that's a big part of the conversation
that we'll talk about when we talk about
dating is women still feel like they
have to have you know do all the
household chores and raise the kids but
suddenly they have to earn a full-time
income too and so so many of the gender
roles are changing and so yes that graph
is true we have seen since 2020 that
there's a shift but I don't want to just
say oh women are making more in
perpetuity because as soon as there's
kids involved they pay the price you
know you said that women feel the need
to then also earn a career and those
things where did that come from well
there's this idea of hypergamy so
traditionally women seek Partners who
have more economic or social status than
they do and for most of human history
this worked because men had the
resources and so there was sort of this
Arrangement where women could often
marry someone who is more educated or
earned more but over the last 50 years
that's really changed and so what I'm
seeing in my work working one-on-one
with women is that when they say that
there aren't enough good guys to go
around that's actually true so we now
have this huge mating Gap where we have
these high- performing High earning
women that have done the work and gone
to therapy and work out and they're
ready for their great partner but
they're not able to find enough guys who
are available and If this is a problem
now with the women I work with in their
30s we are going to be facing a much
more severe crisis 10 15 years from now
so currently 60% of college enrollment
is women but soon it's going to be for
every two women that graduate it'll be
one man so that means half of those
women will not have a guy who graduated
from college and so this is a crisis
because these women are saying okay if
you cannot be the provider then you need
to be offering more emotional
intelligence is the new currency in
dating but these guys were raised not to
be emotionally intelligent not to give
emotional support but to be a provider
and so they've been chasing this lion
I'm going to hunt for this Lion of being
a provider but suddenly they're told you
need to hunt for a tiger which is
emotional intelligence they don't have
the skills to do that and so women have
raised the bar in terms of what they
need from men while men are continuously
falling
behind yeah there's there's a lot there
there's some Nuance around the pay thing
so the data I've seen is that women
under the age of 30 in urban areas are
now making more money but to your point
the moment they have kids where
Corporate America has really failed is
it hasn't figured out out a way to
maintain a woman's professional
trajectory once she decides to deploy
her ovaries and have kits and there's
some data saying okay two-thirds of
divorce can be reverse engineered to the
man starting to make less money if if
when the woman in the relationship
starts making more money they become
twice as likely to get divorced three
times as likely to use ED drugs because
the guy loses a sense of purpose and
self-esteem what gets lost in that data
is the reality is if a woman is stepping
up and stepping into the economic void
and being more econom
ially uh being a greater economic
contributor then logically it would make
sense that men need to step up
logistically and I think what a lot of
women are saying is like okay I'm not
getting anything I'm not you're no
longer a provider and by the way you
haven't filled that void you hadn't made
up the Delta so there's some there's
some nuan around it what what also I
think is important to say is that if
women are better students and showing
the discipline and the skills to go to
college in an information economy and
making more money
then okay good on them just as for
whatever reason men made more money
maybe it wasn't fair but you know it's
not a crime against humanity if women
have the skills to make more money what
happens though is the second order
effects that you're talking about and
that is we don't like to talk about this
75% of women say that economic viability
is hugely important in a may only 25% of
men for men it's not a criteria for
women it is and Chris Williamson of the
modern wisdom podcast he has has this
great Stat or it calls out the high
heels effect and that is 50% of women
say they won't date a man shorter than
them I'm curious what you think but I
think it's more like 80% I think it's
embarrassing thing to say because just
instinctively women feel like they'll be
vulnerable during gestation and they
want someone they think physically could
protect them I just think it's hardwired
into them even if they don't know it
women metaphorically are getting taller
every year and women made horizontally
and up and Men horizontally and down and
when the pool of horizontal and up keep
shrinking they just have so this notion
a ton of great women where are the men
or there's no men there's a lot of men
just not men they'd want to date right
and then you speedball it with the guys
who are in the top 10% can engage in
Porsche polygamy they can get a date
every goddamn night which does not
encourage long-term or very good
behavior so the guys they all want are
not incented to enter into long-term
relationships and the bottom half of men
are literally shut out of the mating
market and we always kind of we always
kind of and this goes to your bwick kind
of portray men as the Predators and the
idiots and the they just got their act
together there's something strange going
on in that is online dating when a woman
a woman can go out with a guy a high
status male and I'll put forward this
thesis and I want you to respond to it
she can have sex with him which gives
her the impression that's her weight
class for a relationship but he's not
interested in a relation ship and then
she basically decides the bottom 90 are
no longer in her weight class and you
can't tell a woman to lower expectations
but the reality is and what the data
I've seen on dating apps is that all of
the women want the same few guys and
they shut out the rest yeah okay so
there's a few things I'll respond to
there so one going back to the income
graph I want to just call out that yes
right now in a few Urban markets women
are making more than men so women in DC
in New York under 30 are making more
than men on average but in most
situations men are still making more
than women but we're talking about a
projection going back to the dating
research so yes it's exactly as you
described what we have right now is
there's fewer and fewer men that are
hypergamous mates for women so if
there's a much smaller pool of guys then
what you have is you have a bunch of
women competing for the same men and
then a bunch of guys getting ignored but
what I also see is that those top guys
are having a hard time deciding so I
feel like in my coaching practice as a
dating coach I'm working with a lot of
women who say what do I do I've changed
my profile the way you said I should I
took your class but I still feel like
there's just not enough great guys and
then I work with these CEO men who are
having such a hard time choosing and so
I think we really have this exacerbated
problem where so many women are
competing for the same men and then a
bunch of guys are getting ignored and
then what ends up happening is where do
those guys go and they go online that's
what you see they go to porn they go to
porn or they go to Reddit I mean I love
Reddit but they're really going to some
of these redpilled communities and so
what you're seeing now is just men
really opting out of society so when you
go back to that Stat one in seven young
men in the UK is neat not an employment
education or training they have just
opted out and as Scott says there's
nothing scarier than a single man a
young single man and so we are just
creating a lot of these angry young
single men who are saying well this is
rigged against me and so that's why I am
worried about the rise of people like
Andrew Tate and if we wonder where are
the dads where are the men well men are
finding these father figures but they're
finding them online and they're not the
father figures that I would choose for
the majority of men and so I'm really
worried about this because I feel like
women are saying guys you need to step
up because I can provide and I don't
need from you and guys are not prepared
to rise to the occasion what what are
women looking for he Scott talked about
height yeah so I would say you know I
work at hinge but I do think that apps
have perpetuated this issue around
height because if you can set your
height filter to something then you
might set it higher and then it's as if
you have the dating app is a club and
you're literally having bouncers that
prevent a bunch of guys from even
getting into the club so many women in
the US set their height filters at 6
feet but but only 14% of men in the US
are six feet or taller so what happens
to the other 86% of men and women are
saying where's my guy it's like well you
he's not even showing up on your app and
so a huge thing that I push women to do
is to change their height filters and
just say there is nothing that proves
that you're going to have a successful
long-term relationship if the guy is
higher I'm married to a short King I
love it I feel like I really found this
Gem and I think that so many women are
missing out on great potential partners
because of things like height Scott's
Point as well about they will date one
of the men in the top 10% yeah sleep
with him potentially and then that kind
of adjusts their standards and they
expect all other men to meet that
standard but there isn't just there
isn't enough men to meet that standard
is that I haven't specifically heard
that I mean there is a lot of evidence
around a sort of mating that people sort
of have an internal sense of how
attractive they are and that they end up
with someone similar to that but aort of
mating is different than hypergamy which
is really this idea as Scott said that
women tend to date horizontally and up
and men date horizontally and down so if
you have two-thirds of women who are
college grads and onethird of college
grads who are men and some of them are
going to date women without college
degrees you truly do have this dating
crisis where there's just not enough men
to meet this hypergamous mating again
you can't tell women to lower their
expectations but this is the reality
when you ask a man if you could have a
woman who had 80% of everything you
wanted 75% say yeah I'm on board when
you say to a woman a man has 80% of what
you want 75% say that's that's not
enough but if you but but even look at
the media right right right what does
the media tell a woman to do he's out
but he didn't open your door he's not
nice to his parent you walk walk right
out on that man like it's literally
every piece of media is you don't need
him you're a strong independent woman
pull the rip cord you're out and
it is the the the basic kind of
communication around this is you are a
strong independent powerful woman that
is wonderful and quite frankly you don't
need the imperfect man and uh they're
just not they're just not connecting I
read that on Tinder a man of average
attractiveness has to swipe right 200
times to get one coffee and then four of
those five coffees will ghost him
they will they will decide they don't
want to meet him or they won't show up
that means a guy of average
attractiveness has to swipe right a
thousand times to get one coffee now
what does that tell that guy women don't
value me women make me feel rejected and
then they go online and they meet they
see these misogynists telling them it's
not your fault and these men become much
more prone to misogynistic content much
more prone to nationalistic content
blaming other people for the lack of
Economic Opportunity they start
sequestering from society I worry that
we are literally evolving a new species
of asexual asocial male and if a man by
the age of 30 hasn't either lived with
someone or married someone there's a one
in three chance he's going to have a
substance abuse problem wow in addition
it goes so much deeper than that
because if they don't develop the
skills you know the reason romantic
comedies are 2 hours and not 15 minutes
is this [__] is hard like finding an
attractive intelligent woman generally
speaking 75% of people who've been
married longer than 30 years say in the
beginning one was much more interested
than the other and it was almost always
the man women are women are much
choosier the basic the basis of
evolution is seed trying to get
everywhere men and women to playing a
much finer filter to to select the
strongest smartest and fastest speed so
men need an environment to demonstrate
excellence and you hear these woman talk
about he was kind he was good at work I
like the way he smelled he was funny
where do men demonstrate Excellence when
they're not going to college they're not
going into an office because of remote
work where do they have they're not
going to church they're not going to
Temple where does a woman have the
opportunity to fall in love other than
these Baseline metrics and you were
talking
about women say you've seen these Tik
toks over $100,000 that's not
unreasonable and over 6 feet that's 2.2%
of the male
population so where where do they fall
in love where can a man demonstrate
Excellence it used to be go to Temple
seven single women seven single men and
they kind of pair it off and worked it
out and online dating similar to online
e-commerce online rentals it's created a
winner take most if not all environment
and it's it's basically been amazing for
attractive guys attractive wealthy guys
tall wealthy guys it's been amazing for
them for all the other guys it's been a
disaster and it's been made it mildly
shittier for every woman it it is the
digitization of mating I believe has
been a disaster it's been bad for women
it's been disastrous for
men I want to talk about how the genders
seem to be separating in a lot of
important ways we know from research
around political affiliation that women
are now on average 30% more liberal than
men so they are definitely experiencing
political polarization then for the
first time in history more men are
attending church than and women and when
I started this research I really came at
it from this point of is it just me or
there not as many eligible guys but when
I dug into this I found that both
genders really feel misunderstood and so
I asked men and women who has more power
in relationships so equal amounts men
and women said oh we have the same
amount of power 42% of that but then
what was so interesting is that 46% of
men said women have more power and 46%
of women said men have more power so
there's this huge feeling of oh the
other gender has all of this power and
when I spoke to people I want to tell
you about three dating paradoxes that I
saw so the first dating Paradox for men
is this idea that now that women are
providers and do not need a man to take
care of them financially they really
want guys to step up with emotional
support but here's the Paradox they were
not raised and they don't know how to
give that emotional support or emotional
availability so we know women even if
they have the same number of friends as
guys the women are talking to their
friends much more often women speak to
their kids even starting at a very young
age they use more emotional language
with their daughters and their sons so
constantly we have this feeling where
we're asking men to do something when
they don't have the skills I was talking
to my friend David and he said women are
in graduate school when it comes to
emotional conversations and guys are in
third grade the other part of the
Paradox is that women are asking men to
be more emotionally open
but then they get shamed when they do
that so we have this great quote from
ber Brown where she says we beg guys to
open up we beg them to let us in and
then when they do we can't stomach it
and I heard that over and over in my
research there's this quote where a guy
says a woman would rather see me die on
the White Horse than fall off of it and
so there's this sense that I have to be
perfect I have to be the masculine and
The Feminine but I don't have the skills
to do that and women say that they want
these guys to be Emo but as soon as they
show emotionality it can freak those
women out so one guy that I spoke to for
this said I went on a few dates with
this woman at some point I told her that
my mom had had a suicide attempt and the
next day she texted me and said I'm
sorry I can't see you I cannot process
your emotional trauma for you and so
guys are getting a lot of mixed messages
we want you to be feminine we want you
to support us but when you do it freaks
us out and so we don't want that and
digging into the research and I want to
look into this more I think it's that a
lot of women want emotional support they
want you to support them in their
emotional Journeys but they're not as
ready to have you open up in your
emotional Journey can I put forward a
thesis and I want you to respond to it
because I haven't done the
research in marketing we call it
consumer dissonance what people say they
want yeah and then what they actually
buy and what women say they want is an
emotionally in touch man and what they
want is a masculine man and that they
will articulate what they want in a man
and includes being more emotionally
available and then they want to have sex
with a traditional masculine man and
what I hear from a lot of and this is
anecdotal evidence and it's pulse
marketing and you tell me what the data
says but there's just so many single
women in my age group and there's L it
feels like there's literally no men in
my age group as bad as it is for people
in their 20s and 30s trying being a
woman in your 50s trying to date right
and they tell me the same thing these
are liberal Progressive educated women
they say by the way I like a manly man
yeah and they say it under their breath
so there's what
supposedly is stated around I need more
emotional availability someone's touch
with their
feelings but what the research shows is
they want a guy with facial hair who's
the who's still women are still very
attracted to traditional masculine
attributes yeah I mean I think we're
just in such a hard moment because you
have women who are saying I don't want
to date a guy who earns less than me and
you might think okay well the data
hasn't caught up with the dating if more
women are in higher education and more
women are earning more then maybe you're
going to be the one who earns more in
your relationship but what they feel
like is projecting out I'm going to end
up doing most of the housework most of
the child care I might as well get a guy
that can contribute financially so they
don't want to change their expectations
around that and so I think we truly are
in a moment where women are being asked
to do more masculine things and men are
being asked to do more feminine things
and I think a lot of that is progress
but it also seems to be creating a lot
of confusion in the dating
world yeah it's sort of was just
thinking I coach a lot of young men and
occasionally women ask me for dating
advice and you coach it sounds like a
lot of both and what I first thing I say
to men is I asked them like would you
want to have sex with
you all right are you in shape what do
you look like naked are you do you have
a plan you don't have to be rich now but
do you have a plan right uh have you do
you have you found means of being
confident can you demonstrate kindness
and Excellence across anything and the
the only advice I give women is second
coffee and that is maybe it wasn't great
I mean if you don't like the guy and
you're just like turned off fine but if
it was just okay maybe give it a second
coffee I have a chapter in my book
called make the second date the default
yeah and it's really because I feel like
I won the lottery with my husband but he
is somebody that takes longer to open up
and he's this lowb bur we met in college
we met again s years later then we were
friends for a year and I feel like he's
this incredible partner husband father
but I don't know that if we'd met just
randomly on the first date that I would
have gone on the second date and so I
think people really do need to train
themselves to look for these slow burs
Logan Scott said something there about
what he thinks women want which is these
sort of traditional masculine features
is this what you see in the data what's
hard is I think Scott's right about what
people say they want versus like so
stated versus preferences so according
to the research that I did women are
saying the number one thing that they're
looking for is kindness and compassion
that's also what men are saying that
they're looking for so in many ways this
is great people are looking for the same
things but I just feel like there's
these huge disconnects now where people
don't feel like they can get what they
want men are saying they want kindness
and compassion that was I made them say
what are all the things that you care
about and then what is the number one
thing that you care about and kindness
and compassion was first for both of
them the stuff I've seen or the stuff
I've read is that for women and I talked
to men about this number one is they
have to Signal resources and we don't
like to say it out loud and by the way
it doesn't necessarily mean you have to
have a Range Rover and a panel right now
but you have a plan right you you have
your [__] together you go home at
midnight when everyone's partying
because you have to be up for work you
work out which shows a level of
discipline and that you can commit to
something you're in school you've got a
good job this person is going to have
resour resources and I don't think
that's changed a whole lot I think a
man's ability to to Signal future
resources has gone down I'm not sure
it's become any less of a criteria
number two is intellect and it's very
instinctual because if you make good
decisions for the tribe your kids are
more likely to survive someone who's
smart is more likely to take care of
your Offspring than someone who's stupid
what's interesting and I love this is
the fastest way to communicate intellect
is humor and I joke I joke this is bad
but I say this is my impression of a
woman I'm laughing I'm laughing I'm
naked and that is I've always thought if
a guy can make a woman laugh she will
she will date him and then the third
thing and this is where guys screw up
this is what I tell a guy's secret
weapon is it's kindness women want to
see that you are a good person you you
treat service staff well you're good to
your parents you have manners you treat
people well even with no reciprocal
expectation because they know that a
kind person if and when she's vulnerable
and needs help and maybe isn't bringing
as much to the table for certain periods
of time that that this is a kind man and
you know sure you want to do your best
to Signal resources and have a plan sure
maybe you're smart maybe you aren't
there's not a lot you can do there but
the secret weapon I think for men that
they don't leverage and I do think it's
a practice is to demonstrate kindness
and we don't talk about that enough as
men it's like well okay and it's little
things have good manners be thoughtful
follow up with people and I I think that
anyways those are the three things that
I have read women want uh in men okay
there's so much there so one one is I do
think we need a new definition for
modern masculinity or mature masculinity
or evolved masculinity and I think that
that's why this moment feels so painful
is that we don't have it because I agree
with you I don't think women are saying
I want a feminine man I think they want
a modern masculine man and so that means
somebody who is decisive and can provide
but also somebody who's able to
communicate with them emotionally and so
one of the suggestions that I came here
today to talk about is this idea of
men's groups so about a year ago my
friend David claven who happens to be a
world-class magician came to my husband
and said I'm going to form this men's
group and so it's about six or seven men
and they meet together monthly and and
they have served they they have formed
this Council of peers so every month
that they get together every guy sits
down with Post-it notes and says the two
issues that are most pressing for him so
first of all I think that that's a great
way of doing it because it's actually
that time to say what am I struggling
with I think many people in their lives
maybe especially men don't sit there and
saying what's top of mine for me so guys
get the quiet time to do that then they
go around in a circle and whoever has
the most pressing issue they get to take
their time and some men might say know
these are top of mind for me but it's
not a priority I'll give the time to
someone else and each month they talk
about what's going on for them they hold
each other accountable so month three
they might say hey David you've been
talking about that for the last three
months are you going to actually do
anything about it and I love that these
men have a masculine space to actually
go through what's going on for them
because maybe they have wives and
girlfriends they can go to maybe they
don't but I think it's a different type
of advice that you get from a council of
trusted peers and I really do think that
men's groups could change a lot of these
issues because I can sit here and say
everybody should be in therapy guess
what therapy is really expensive and
many insurance companies will not
provide it or there's a huge waiting
list and so if we just sit around for
all these guys to go to therapy that's
not going to happen but men's groups are
a way that men can lead each other they
can provide this tribe of peers and I
have just seen so many changes in this
group so David told me his story where
he had a lot of anger about his mom's
debilitating illness and he wasn't
really experiencing it and it was coming
out as anger at his mom but he wasn't
conscious of that but by getting the
anger out in a safe place with men the
only place where he felt like he could
truly be angry he was able to get over
it and to actually treat his mom with a
lot more empathy or my husband has gone
to the group and talked about ego stuff
at work or how hard the transition to
becoming a parent has been and I feel
like the men in this group have grown so
much over the 12 months that it's been
happening that I just paid for my
brother-in-law to be in a men's group
and I want there to be tons of men's
groups because I really feel like this
isn't an issue that a therapist or a mom
or I can really solve I think men need
to be solving this problem within
themselves where you said is really
powerful because if you walk down the
hallway at Stern there's golden seeds
Venture cap women and Venture Capital
black women's Consulting Club there
there are women's
supporters there's nothing for men and
these groups are really wonderful man
talks is one that I've been looking at
where they've said let's get together
and just be supportive of each other and
it's and it's a fairly new phenomenon I
think people are afraid of men Gathering
because traditionally bad things have
happened in that right there I mean
gangs I'm just thinking of like many
situations in which like if once there's
a TIY torch I want there to be some
women there right like so there's a
reason why people have been fearful of
this or it's like when the whole world
was was a men's group a men's club you
didn't need to have Men's Clubs but I
think in this moment this is a really
powerful organic Grassroots way for men
to change so I imagine that you have
group chats with men that are your peers
that you go to for advice and I feel
like there's men out there that don't
have that and we are meant to make
decisions by getting advice from other
people I personally have a board of
directors that in my life when I'm going
to make a big decision I meet with them
so when I took my last job when I
decided to move all these different
things I meet with my board of directors
and I say what am I not seeing what are
my blind spots and they've given me a
lot of good and hard advice and I think
we all need to be building our own board
of directors and for men that might be
this men's group do you mind if I pause
this conversation for a moment I want to
talk about our show sponsor today which
is Shopify I've always believed that the
biggest cost in business isn't failure
it's the time you waste trying to make
decisions time spent hesitating
overthinking or waiting for the right
moment when I started my first company
at 20 years old I had no experience and
no money what I did have was an idea and
the willingness to move fast and that
made all the difference if you've been
thinking about starting your own
business Shopify makes this entire
process so much easier with thousands of
customizable templates you don't need
coding or design skills you just need a
willingness to start Shopify connects
all your sales channels from your
website to social media and it handles
the backend payments shipping and tax es
to so that you can stay focused on
moving forward and growing your business
if you're ready to start visit
shopify.com Bartlet and sign up for a
one pound per month trial period That's
shopify.com
Bartlet it is hard as a as a young man
to um share how you feel with other
young men even if they like your best
friends it's so much easier just to
roast each other yeah like my my group
chat with my guys yeah is probably a
little bit more advanced in in terms of
emotional openness but most of it is
just like a war zone well like izing
each other attacking each other but
that's kind of our way of showing love
and then you'll have once every two
weeks someone will be going through
something so like one of my friends now
he they' just found out that there's a
complication with the pregnancy and the
tone shifts and we all become supportive
but my girlfriend tells me how rare that
is that we have this space where we'll
we'll talk about our emotions and how
we're feeling and we'll swi switch from
like trying to kill each other in the
most like funny way to being really
really emotionally supportive a lot of
men don't have that well so funny you
said that because my husband's really
funny and so are some of the other guys
in the group and they actually had to
talk about how they needed to be less
funny because the F the humor was
becoming a distraction and somebody
brought up you know in their own male
way like I think that sometimes we're
about to go deep and then someone makes
a joke and even though that joke was
really good we don't go back to where we
were and we don't go as deep so they
actually work on being less funny in
that group but look at the work that you
do you sit for hours a week and you
learn and you ask people questions and
you're working on yourself I'm not
surprised that you have a group of peers
that you can go to for that but I would
wager that the average man doesn't have
that and I feel like there are going to
be so many women who are listening and
watching this and they're like I want
that for my husband what is the
evolutionary basis for this this is what
I was thinking the whole time I was like
did we lose the man's group at some
point in our past and is that why we're
adding it back into our lives like what
was what used to do this job before so
what I've heard and I think evolutionary
biology you always have to take certain
things with a grain of salt because
people can kind of explain away any with
it but it's that a lot of times men were
sitting next to each other and they were
having these conversations on the
Savannah and that's often why like guys
prefer to do activities side by side and
not facing each other and so you had men
who were in conversation with their
peers or you know and outside and
outside hey heard you getting divorced
right right or it's like you know why
it's so good to have conversations in
the car I feel like you had a lot of men
that were in groups at church you had
men who were in The Elks Club you had
veterans that were meeting we actually
feel like this is a time where much
fewer men are getting together and this
is all of the amazing research that's
happening now around loneliness is that
the average young guy is spending many
fewer hours a week with their peers face
to face so even though a guy might be
catching up with his friend playing
video games I just don't think that
that's the same thing and so I feel like
we need this in-person time with our
friends to develop these relationships
and instead we have people on Tik Tok
people on Twitch watching other people
live their lives you brought up two
interesting thing you when is your your
your friend group I have a similar group
same eight gu eight guys I live with my
freshman here at UCLA for 30 or 40 years
we've been kind of Constant Contact
email now on
WhatsApp when your friend had something
bad happen to him I think for a long
time men have waited and show empathy
for each other what none of my male
friends have ever done their friend
group would say is I I've never heard
one of my male friends go I'm depressed
I'm I'm just super [__] lonely and
depressed you just don't hear that from
Men I'm struggling with anger I'm I have
I'm all of a sudden I have a rectile
dysfunction you would just I've never
heard one of my male friends when their
mom dies or they get divorced we weigh
in with a lot of empathy but you never
hear them really open up because men are
worried that if we display weakness
another man might kill us
and take our [__] from us or the women
aren't going to want to have sex with us
so there's still I think a huge
inability for men to proactively talk
about how they're really feeling and
then you talked about a board of
directors a great Board of Directors for
a man in his 20s unfortunately not
unfortunately is a girlfriend yeah and
I'll just use personal
experience I had a great girlfriend when
I was 24 and she basically said to me if
you don't stop getting high every night
I'm going Toop stop having sex with you
that was very motivating for me I really
liked being with a
partner without the guardrails of a
romantic relationship I think men are
just I want to say lost but women create
more social connections outside of a
romantic relationship and sometimes that
absence of a romantic relationship they
pour that energy into friendships and
their professional life whereas Men
start pouring it into video games and
rdit in porn so the fact that only one
in three men in America under the age of
30 has a girlfriend and two and three
women has a boyfriend you think well
that's mathematically impossible it's
not because women are dating older
because they want more economically and
emotionally viable men if I hadn't been
in relationships that were great
guardrails for me in terms of my own
behavior my own
ambition I men need without the prospect
or the existence of a romantic
relationship men have worse outcomes
than women who don't have and it it is
what I'm do you agree with what I'm
saying does the research bear that
out you know it's interesting because
part of me where my head goes is like
are you asking women to do the emotional
labor of raising men and when you phrase
it like that it sounds really negative
but from anecdotal experience from my
own life you know I've been with my
husband for 10 years I think we both
really shaped each other but like even
yesterday he texted me and he's like I'm
going to get an Uber instead of renting
a car at the airport you've taught me
how to be such a Savvy traveler like
that's a small example but but it's like
you really do influence each other and I
think that I think sometimes about my
single friends and how they go to bed at
night and they don't have a person next
to them to give them advice and to
listen to them talk about their day and
I think that when we're in long-term
relationships there's an element of
raising each other and building memories
together and making each other better
and having that investment equals three
right and that's why I just all these
women that come to me and all these men
that are looking for love that want
relationships and something is happening
right now where the Gap just seems to be
widening and these relationships aren't
happening and this is even true in
teenage relationship so it used to be
that for Baby Boomers and Gen X three4
of men had had a relationship in their
teen years and now it's under 50% and so
if you start building your relational
skills at an early age then you get
better and better at dating over time
but if as you said by the time you're 30
you haven't been in a relationship
that's seen as a red flag to a lot of
people
and so I think we have a problem now but
I'm really projecting that we're going
to have a much greater problem in the
future I think a real enemy of
relationships and mating for people in
their 20s that we haven't talked a lot
about I had Dr Anna lmy from Stanford on
my pod talking about addiction and
something we're just starting to come to
grips with and as I read more about it I
think porn is really let's talk about
porn well personal experience I used to
to go on Camp the only reason I
graduated from UCLA I graduated with a
2.27 GPA if I graduated with a 1.97 I
wouldn't
graduated not an not the only motivator
but a real motivator for me was the
prospect of meeting someone I I could go
on to campus and there might be a chance
I'd meet friends be social and possibly
meet a potential romantic partner it was
very motivating and if I'd had porn on
this right and on my screen always
available I'm not sure I would gone on
campus I I just would have spent a lot
more time at home and unfortunately the
deepest pocketed most talented companies
in the world are trying to convince
young people that they can have a
reasonable fact simile of life on a
screen with an algorithm and what I say
to young men I coaches it I'm not going
to tell you not to consume porn but try
to modulate it because I think that fire
of wanting to meet someone and wanting
to demonstrate excellence and being
having perseverance and enduring
rejection getting your [__] together and
dressing well and smelling nice and
showering for God's sakes that Mojo that
desire is incredibly important for
society and we're taking young men's
Mojo Away With frictionless Open Access
ond demand porn have you seen these noof
fap communities yeah have you seen this
yes okay so I was listening to this
episode of Modern William with Chris
Williamson and he was interviewing Hamza
who was self-identifying as a former
redpilled person and he was talking
about how much it changed his life to
try to enter the noof fap Community
which means no masturbation and so I do
think that porn is a huge problem my
first job out of college was running the
porn pod for Google so what this meant
was that we would sell ads for the porn
advertisers this team does not exist
anymore this was a long time ago um my
parents were like I sent you to Harvard
and now you're selling ads for
pornography
but when I look back I'm like what was I
perpetuating because I feel like there's
just so many problems with what
technology is doing in terms of
replacing human connection so let's just
project out chat PT is already amazing
I'm currently in my Google feed getting
ads for replica and the ads say get your
perfect AI boyfriend always there for
you yeah so you think about the fact
that real life relationships are messy I
tell my husband on a weekly basis please
throw contact lens in the garbage and
every week we have a disagreement about
that well guess what your online
girlfriend she doesn't nag you she
doesn't tell you to pick up your socks
she only tells you how great you are and
always tells you you know that you're
doing the right thing and how was your
day then you insert sex robots Okay so
you have your emotional needs met you
have your sexual needs met maybe you're
watching porn while engaging with your
sex robots why would you want to go
through the very challenging potential
rejection of real life relationships and
I feel like if all these things come to
pass which it seems very likely that
they will we are truly in a crisis
moment when it comes to birth rate and
future generations and it impacts them
it'll impact the economy because the
skills you have to develop to be
successful in The Mating Market are life
skills you have to be able to endure
rejection you have to have a sense of
humor you have to be able to read the
room show me a guy who's good in a bar
I'll show you a guy who probably be good
in a boardroom and the skills you have
to develop as a young man if you want a
romantic and a sexual relationship pay
dividends the rest of your life and if
you don't develop those skills I think
it impacts your life across a bunch of
Dimensions this is something I'm worried
about for genz in general so I did a ton
of research with post-pandemic genz
daters men and women in the UK and
United States and such a big theme that
came out of it was that they don't have
rejection resilience and I think that we
hear this in many aspects of life so
someone that I'm close to he's the
former dean of brown he's a professor
there and he was talking about how it
used to be that his office hours were
empty and that's when he could do his
reading or play solitire but now
students come basically saying tell me
exactly what's going to be on the test
tell me exactly what to write in my
paper because they are not willing to
fail I have friends who are managers at
Google and they give somebody feedback
in a Google doc and the person is crying
because they take that as extreme
rejection and so if you don't have the
resilience built up fail then you are
not going to take risks and everything
in life worth having is worth taking a
risk for and so I feel that I have my
dream job nobody messaged me on LinkedIn
and said hey Logan do you want to study
dating and relationships no I invented
this job and now I get to have it and
same thing is true with relationships
it's not about waiting for the perfect
person to show up it's about becoming a
great person who somebody else chooses
and going after what you want I want to
talk about all of this and it
specifically offer some solutions to the
young to the parents to the boys to the
teens to the men that are listening we
had a young man actually write in on
this subject and he said I've suffered
with crippling loneliness and so I've
spent over $1,000 hiring women online
just to talk to me and to keep me
company on top of that I've spent
several ,000 more engaging in other
business with them after doing this for
nearly a year now I still feel
incredibly unfulfilled and on the
subject of porn 30% of internet traffic
is now related to porn with about 80% of
that porn traffic coming from men and
20% coming from women I actually had a
conversation on this podcast before
about porn and funly enough the top
comment was by the way us women what get
porn addicted to because it was a bit of
a blind spot to me but I think that's
something that's worth
acknowledging and the stats are
staggering in terms of how higher porn
consumption correlates to higher
probabilities of
depression what you do about it like on
an individual level I get it try not to
watch porn but I mean that doesn't seem
like incredibly great advice because if
you're lonely you're not getting laid no
one wants to date you for all the
reasons we've talked about today
restraint seems to be a pretty
shitty solution give this one to okay so
I coach young men I take two to three on
at any time and I don't know if this is
the right way but it's my way I'm like
you got to lean into your advantage when
you're our age you have more you have
Capital you have more money than time
they have Capital they have a lot of
time and I asked them to unlock their
screen and I say to them I gamble with
options I gamble at my age I still
gamble I I preach about lowcost index
funds and I buy call options that makes
no [__] sense it's gambling but I
know it I watch porn I try and modulate
my use so I can put the majority of my
sexual energy into my partner but I
watch porn because I want them to not
feel like I'm going to judge them they
unlock their phone and I say we're going
to find 8 to 12 hours a week of time of
capital and we're going to reinvest that
capital and higher Roi Investments it is
so easy to find 8 to 12 hours it can
sometimes find seven hours or 15 hours
just in tick talk you look at screen
time I look at screen time and I say all
right come with through with me we're
going to find eight to 12 hours and then
we're going to reinvest that capital in
three Investments one we're going to
start working out and getting fit you're
going to work out three times a week
with weights you should be able the the
human mail form is spectacular you
should be able to walk in in any room
under the age of 30 if you're a man and
know that if [__] got real you could
kill and eat everybody or outrun them I
need you to be strong you're going to be
more mentally healthy you're going to be
kinder look at the people who break up
fights at bars they're big strong men
look at the people who defend their
country you want to be strong as a man
it feels [__] amazing testosterone
your your bone structure your muscle
mass it's amazing lean into that we're
going to get strong two you got to start
making
money and the kids are you know to be
honest the kids I'm coaching are really
struggling these are kids at home at the
age of 23 with their mom not getting
along with their mom nothing going on if
you have a phone you can make money I
don't care if it's lift Tas ret because
you get a taste for the Flesh and the
the way to start making a lot of money
is to start making a little bit of money
because you start to figure out the
economy how could I make more money
maybe at some point could I buy a car
and hire a driver to be an Uber you know
what what is the way
you know could I get a certification in
in Plum you start figuring out and you
start getting your GRE gland get going
oh my God it's a have money I can go out
I can go to a concert it gets those
greed Gins going and then the third
thing we're going to do is we're going
to put ourselves in a company of
strangers in the agency of something
bigger than ourselves twice a week
church group softball league
nonprofit chair whatever it is and then
3A and this is I've just started doing
this I've believe done it two times and
it's an exercise and I say and it goes
to your I think no is the way to success
show me someone who's successful I'm
going to show you a [__] ton of NOS I've
been re I ran for sophomore junior
senior class president lost all three
times decided to run for senior class
president lost I applied to 38 jobs I
got one offer nine schools rejected by
seven I mean I just my whole life has
been about no and that's why I'm
successful is I was always able to
endure it so I say to them this is what
I want you to do I need you to go up to
a stranger at wherever we're doing
church group Rider Club Riders club
whatever it might be online educa not
online excuse me education continuing
education and you're gonna ask them out
for coffee it's a friend hey what are
you doing you want to watch the game do
you want to watch the Liverpool game
this weekend let's go to a bar if it's a
woman you might have new trctor to Hey
try and get a wrap going would you like
to have coffee and here's the goal the
goal is no and we're going to celebrate
now CU you're going to call me and I'm
going to say did you ask someone out for
coffee or to a bar and most likely
they'll said no it'll be polite but'll
come excuse and then I'm going to ask
you if you're okay and you're going to
say yes and that's the victory it's
interesting because if you go on Tik Tok
or if you go on X you'll find a lot of
videos of women filming themselves as a
guy inappropriately came and made a
gesture to them and then like publicly
shaming them on the Internet it's very
popular to do in the gym yeah they set
up a phone they're working out a guy
comes over and asks if they need help
with the weights it then goes viral
online because that guy was being
inappropriate like you shouldn't so like
as a guy it's quite complicated to know
how and where you can roll up without
being filmed and going viral I know so
we we talked about the first dating
Paradox which is just the idea that
women now need more from men and are
raising the bar because they can be
providers on their own but men weren't
taught how to do that and they're
sometimes shame for it so I think the
second big dating Paradox is that men
are expected to lead and to approach but
I truly feel like in a post me too era
it's much more confusing and so so many
people say to me I don't want to meet on
an app not romantic I want to meet in
real life but I'm not finding that
people are meeting in real life because
people are afraid to approach each other
I think one is being afraid of being
called creepy but the other one which is
what you're talking about is that this
culture of making tick toks or going
online with this dater attainment to
talk about how this person approached
you or how inappropriate that was and so
I feel like there's a lot of women
waiting for men to approach them but
then shaming The Men Who do I think one
of the solutions there is we should
allow people to shoot their shot in a
non- creepy way can I just say something
to that if the guy rolls up and he's 6'4
and he's you know gorgeous it's fine it
seems the difference between creepy and
romantic is the perceived attractiveness
of the person making the Overture I
think that that is true if you are super
hot it's less lik to be perceived as
creepy but you have all these people
that are saying I want to be approached
and they're not being approached and so
there was this rise of run clubs last
summer right everyone said the new
dating app is the Run Club I ask
everywhere I go have you met someone at
a run Club no people are not really
meeting there so since 2017 the number
one way that people are meeting is
online Hing just setting up a date every
two seconds this is where the dating is
happening if people want more things to
happen offline they actually have to
approach each other and I'm just not
seeing that happen but my understanding
is the majority of women still expect
the man to take the initiative
absolutely
and this is one of the most frightening
stats I've seen
according to Pew more than 50% of men
between the ages of 18 and 24 have never
asked a woman out in
person
and I just find that
so just upsetting and rattling because
that means they're either not asking
people out or they're asking them out
online where quite frankly they can't
demonstrate any sense of excellence and
I think the beautiful thing about human
sexuality is sometimes you don't even
know why you're attracted to someone you
like the way they smell you find out
they're funny and that happens in person
but we need one more third spaces more
places people can meet and also I I
actually think it would be helpful to
have in the senior of high school a
class called adulting where amongst
other things you teach them about the
interest rate on a credit card you know
little things my my kid can do integers
and he doesn't understand the interest
rate on his credit card and also quite
frankly I think young men need guidance
around how to express romantic interest
while making the other person feel safe
and also that if you express romantic
interest and ask someone out for coffee
and they say no you're both going to be
fine you haven't committed a crime
against humanity as long as you're
respectful and you don't make the person
feel uncomfortable but men aren't even
asking women out everything you're
saying is what I'm seeing so I was
talking to this incredible 16-year-old
girl who built this AI chat bot called
ask L and she's taken all the
relationship science research that she's
seen and she's trained this chatbot and
she's trying to help teens get safe and
empowered dating advice and I asked her
what is the number one question that
you're getting and it's how to ask
someone out and so I think people are
really struggling it's not that teens in
all of human history had the secret it's
that they were willing to do it and fail
and now we're just not seeing that and
so I think that we have glossed over the
pandemic it was this really traumatic
time really scary stuff happened and we
don't want to talk about it but people
that came of age during the pandemic
their social skills are worse they
missed out on critical moments of
becoming a human and we are seeing that
in the workplace all these things about
gen Z gen Alpha that came from something
it came from parenting it came from
digital addiction it came from the
pandemic and online learning and I think
that if you do not have the social
skills to approach someone and ask them
out there just will be literally fewer
couples I want to throw a Molotov
cocktail into this and something that's
controversial I've got push back on I
think one of the enemies of mating is
that there's to little drinking
if you look at um Millennials they spent
$30 billion on alcohol genz it's crashed
to two billion Peter ATA and Andrew
huberman have declared war on drinking I
think young people need to drink more go
out and make a series of bad decisions
and might pay off I don't see
drunkenness I see togetherness and I
don't know how it was for you and your
relationship when I think of the
majority of great friendships I have and
the Romantic opportunities I've had not
always but often alcohol played a role
and I worry that with a lack of going
out being out of the house and also a
lack of drinking that we've taken away a
social lubricant that breaks down some
of the walls and some of the initial
awkwardness and entry into a potential
romantic relationship I think some of
the increase in Being Sober Sober
curious comes from interest in being
healthy so we hear from Jen Z I don't
want to have anxiety the next day they
are much less expensive yeah they are
much less like leita Millennials to feel
like there's a two drink drink minimum
for dates but in general we seeing less
risk- taking behavior from gen Z they
are getting their licenses far later if
at all they are losing their virginity
much later if at all and so I feel like
there's this rise of or there's this
decrease in risk-taking Behavior which
in some ways is great you know fewer
kids dying in car crashes and people
being responsible but I just feel like
people are having people are missing out
on the experience to make mistakes as a
young person and I think when I think
back to my college experience if there
had been cameras that have high quality
video on them at all times I would have
lived a very different college
experience I am so grateful that
Instagram was not there when I was in
college and so if you live in a
surveillance culture where at any moment
somebody is snapping the room and they
could see what you're doing you're going
to take fewer risks and I just feel like
there's this entire culture of people
being very safe and part of dating part
of mating is making mistakes taking
risks and failing so what do we do about
it Logan speaking Scott gave a really
good um sort of advice for the young man
or the young person who's trying to
increase their mating value their dating
value if I'm a what advice would you
give to a young man about how to be
attractive because there's going to be a
lot of young men listening right now I
imagine from the stats all I love what
Scott said in terms of his advice and I
feel like it's one of those things where
the secret to happiness or the secret to
success is simple but hard so it's not
like there's infinite things you need to
do it's actually quite a simple plan but
it's quite hard to execute on it a few
things that I would add so one is I have
this friend Sam par he started the
hustle he started the podcast my first
million one thing that he did to make
himself more attractive as a mate was he
would develop these passions and really
talk about them on dates because he
found that women were really drawn to
the fact that he was pursuing other
activities so he got really into Denim
and he would talk about these denim
meets that that he would go to and he
found that women were really drawn to
that he's very into the growth mindset
and working on himself he felt like that
was something that women were so drawn
to how he was growing because if you
think about the projections well when he
met my friend Sarah he wasn't making any
money she was making a lot more than him
but she could see that he had a great
path ahead of him because he was
constantly working and improving himself
the other thing I would tell men is
through my research I found that men
think I need to be perfect I need to be
six feet tall look women are not
expecting you to fly them to the Moon
they want effort remember the name of
their best friend text them when they
had a hard meeting and say how did it go
plan a thoughtful date and so I think
that you have men over here saying if
I'm not six feet tall I don't have a
chance so why participate anyway and
then you have women saying in some ways
I just want you to be an effortful nice
person and I'm not even getting that and
so I think that for men they can
actually get much farther than they
think and be better than 90% of men by
doing some of these bare minimum things
that other men aren't doing so I have
this question that I ask in my book
which is when you're deciding if you
should break up with someone if your
partner were a piece of clothing in your
closet what would they be in my is it my
clothes or her clothes my clothes oh
okay and it really has to be gut
reaction so Scott if you thought of one
I want to hear
it I thought of like a black silk shirt
and that's probably because that's where
we spend quality time together is when
I'm wearing a black silk shirt special
occasions date night restaurant um make
an effort um do you feel good in it yeah
of course I feel my best in it yeah and
do you have one for your wife brunella
Cinelli Kashmir v-x sweater makes me
look fantastic makes me better and it's
beautiful yes and mine for my husband
would be this awesome orange robe that I
have that represents being at home I
love the orange color that's really
bright and it represents our family time
so I've asked this question to I feel
shamed I feel like mine was so
superficial no yours was great cashmir V
I think your answer family orange I feel
so shamed no no no I think your answer
is wonderful and I actually in general
find that outer wear answers are very
strong because it means that you feel
warm around them it's you at your best
this your I feel [__] fabulous I
don't that's all that matters your
answer was great the answers that worry
me are something like a wool sweater
that feels good but then it's so I take
it off the ratty shirt that I wear to
the gym these are real answers I've
gotten point is for years I've been
asking people this question well now I
want to ask people the question of if
you were a piece of clothing in your
closet what would you be and I feel like
we spend so much time saying I'm looking
for this in a partner this is the
checklist well look in the mirror do you
have those traits and so for somebody
who says I'm a ratty sweatshirt and it's
not the thing that I would choose to
wear well then work on yourself and so I
feel like there's a lot of feelings of
I'm going to relation shop I'm going to
look for a partner the way I look for
Bluetooth headphones well a lot of that
is about breaking people down into these
parts and I feel like we should spend
less time thinking about the checklist
for our partner and more time thinking
about who am I and am I somebody who
would be
chosen we've talked a lot about how
young men are struggling which
demographic of women do you find
struggle the most as it relates to
mating and dating so I work with a lot
of very successful women and that's also
because I'm expensive to work with and
that's who my clients are but I have a
newsletter where I hear from 85,000
people and so what I'm hearing is that a
lot of women are saying men are
intimidated by the amount of money that
I make they say that they're not going
to be but the more successful I become
the more threatened they are I'm just
talking to tons of women personal
friends I I feel like at my house on one
side of me and then two sides over are
women who are having babies they call it
like single mother by choice where they
literally were just like I can't find a
man and I want to become a mom so I'm
going to do it by myself and so I feel
like there are just all these great
women who are saying Logan I'm following
your advice I'm putting myself out there
I do all these things but they're just
not finding Partners do you find that
the more successful a woman becomes the
more difficult it becomes for her to
find a man that will not feel
emasculated by her success I don't think
that there's an exact correlation
because it really depends who the guy is
there are guys out there who are like
let's be a power couple but I feel like
there are women who just feel like
there's not enough good guys for them
and I'm curious what you think about
this but I live in the Bay Area I'm
seeing so much polyamory and I think
polyamory is interesting I'm Pro polyam
I like the fact that people are thinking
about relationship structures in a new
way 50% of marriag is end in divorce
obviously our one size fits all
approached marriage isn't working but
I'm also wondering
well let me tell you the story I went to
this dating event and the dating event
had five single women who were great and
their friends were hyping them up and
then there was two guys and they were
both polyamorous and so I wonder if
you're a guy who feels like there's not
that many good guys why should I have to
choose I feel like that's a trend that
I'm worried about pors of polygamy if
it's never been better to be a very
attractive male but you have so much
opportunity it does not and sent good
behavior or long-term relationships and
I work with these guys and you might
think that they're the happiest people
in the world they are having sex they
are getting a lot of attention but
they're suffering from decision
paralysis and these are some of the guys
that hit 40 42 and they haven't gotten
married they don't have kids and they
sort of are like why would I ever settle
down if I don't have to or I'm going to
wait as long as possible but they don't
understand the opportunity cost which is
building a life with someone having kids
every year year that you wait to have
kids is a year that your kids will be
alive without you and so I really feel
like these people in the top percentage
yes they're having a much easier time
but they also have problems because
they're having decision paralysis and
they're not settling down but I I would
just I think the reality though on the
ground is that if you're a
High um status male you think age is on
your side and it is and because the
reality is the bi the math is just
unfair to women it is because if you're
a 30-year-old male making really good
money and it you know relative like just
not
unattractive at
40 you're going to be even sexier your
sexual currency goes up I do think that
there's a point where it starts to go
down and I've seen that with my coaching
clients and part of that is just how the
dating apps work that if you are an
attractive woman and you set your age
maximum at 40 I do see that those men
see diminishing returns after that age
well especially if they haven't ever
been in a long-term relationship seen as
a clear red
flag if you're looking to take the next
step in your Tech Career you'll want to
hear about our sponsor Inuit I've always
believed that if you want to do your
best work you have to put yourself in
the right environment you want to work
with the best you want to work with the
best technologists who are leading
Innovation with data and Ai and this is
what you can expect into it they're
growing their Tech careers building an
AI driven expert platform that connects
people to all the money they deserve The
Cutting Edge Tech they are developing in
products like Turbo Tax Credit Karma
QuickBooks and MailChimp are helping
around a 100 million customers and
businesses put more money in their
Pockets having a mission-driven culture
is something I really align with because
it's all about solving complex customer
problems with rapid experimentation to
move faster quite similar to the culture
I want to Foster at my companies if this
sounds like you and you want to grow
your Tech Career working alongside the
best check out intuit.com SL careers
they also offer hybrid work and a very
inclusive culture with offices in
Atlanta New York San Diego the Bay Area
Toronto and around the world head over
to in nit t/c careers to explore their
opportunities no matter where I am in
the world it seems like everyone is
drinking matcha and there's a good
chance that that matcha you're drinking
is made by a company that I've invested
more than seven figures in who are a
sponsor of this podcast called perfect
Ted because they're the brand used
globally by caf like blank Street Coffee
and Joe in the juice and many many more
not only can you get perfect de match in
cafes but you can now also make it at
home much cheaper in seconds using our
flavored matcha powders that I have here
in front of me perfect Ted matcha is
ceremonial grade and soured from Japan
it is smooth it is naturally sweet not
like those bitter grassy matches that I
tried before perfect Ted and if you are
one of those people that have told
yourself you don't like matcha it's
probably because you haven't tried our
perfect Ted matcha and you can find
perfect Ted match in the UK in Tesco
Sainsbury's Holland and Barett and in
waitrose or Albert Hine if you're in the
Netherlands and on Amazon in the USA or
get the full range online at perfect.com
where you can get 40% off your first
order with code Steven
40 what role does feminism and the rise
of feminism play in all of this because
I've had people on my podcast I think
actually our last episode we published
was a lady who's a child psychologist
she's been that way for three decad ades
and she came on and said that the
feminist movement has let men and women
down in some ways there's been great
upsides but there's also been a cost and
one of the things she was really big on
which I thought would be extremely
controversial it turns out it wasn't in
the comment section is that she believes
women should be there for the first two
years of a child's life and I was like I
questioned her on that I was like and
then I looked at the stats and I looked
at the research and she basically makes
the case that because the the mother is
producing certain hormones so I searched
and it was true we fact checked that
episode
and then beyond there the the the man
her father brings out another set of
hormones in the in the young child which
are about play and adventure and all
these kinds of things so she makes the
case that we've kind of lied to women
and we've told them that they can have
it all they can have an incredible
career they can also be incredible
mothers and um she says that in her
office she often sees mothers coming in
saying that they're 39 years old they're
struggling they're trying to do IVF they
feel like they were lied to throwing all
of that out there I'm going to quote
Scott to Scott which is you can have it
all just not at the same time yeah I
don't you know it's we can talk about
what is the best hormone balance and
brings out the best in kids and then
there's the real world and my partner
was working at Goldman Sachs with two
babies and getting up at 5: in the
morning and it was hell for her and at
the same time and I you know at the same
time I was struggling with trying to get
economic traction because my whole
identity as a man I'm not proud of this
has been defined by money so is mine I
don't think men say this enough like
yeah of I I thought this was really
weird cuz I'm we're we're in Austin
right now and my team put me up in a
hotel and it's just like a normal Hotel
I'm like so I don't give a [__] my
girlfriend comes to town tonight
immediately my brain goes oh my God we
need to move into a better Hotel Airbnb
because my girlfriend I've been with her
for seven years she doesn't give off H
yeah she doesn't care about material
things she doesn't have a Louis Vuitton
anything she's a breath work she's a
yogi right but there's still this part
of me even at this stage where I'm like
convinced she's not going anywhere where
I constantly think
about I need to be successful I need to
have money I need to demonstrate
strength or she won't like me it's so
it's so weird because it's not true like
objectively I know it's not true but
it's in me I don't know I think it's
mostly true what do you mean I think in
a capitalist Society the health care of
your children the opportunities your
children have your ability to provide
your ability to take care of your
parents unfortunately in our society is
so tightly correlated to money yeah that
I I think at the end of the day
masculinity kind of comes down to
provider protector and procreator and I
think every young man should take at
least start with the notion they're
going to be the economic provider and by
the way that might mean getting out of
the way and being more supportive of
your partner who happens to be better at
the whole money thing than you that's
part of masculinity too but a good place
to start is to assume in a capital
society that you're just you have a
responsibility to be economically viable
and every piece of incentive in our
society I remember in the 70s when I was
in grade school our principal was a cool
guy he wore cool jackets and he had
great hair and he smelled Aqua Velva and
he drove a 240Z you could be a High
character handsome interesting cool guy
into karate or whatever now I just think
it's all about the
Benjamins I just it is so our society
democracy your rights your sexual
attractiveness as a man I don't care
what yeah write me an article about how
men just need to be emotionally
available [__] it's it's so
disappointingly about money in my view
all the incentives telling young men and
so they go to these get-rich quick
schemes if they can make money they feel
they feel like losers but what you're
feeling quite frankly is common sense
from every signal that if for some
reason it doesn't work out with your
mate your selection set of mates how
interesting you are to other men your
opportunities your rights your democracy
is going to be based on your ability to
be economically powerful it's not the
way the world should be but it is the
way the world is and when I say to young
men is there's just no getting around it
you have to be economically viable would
you say the same thing to women or would
you say there's no getting around it you
have to be hot no I think women I think
women
unfortunately so this is base analysis
women men get turned on with their eyes
it's more important for a woman to be
aesthetically attractive than a man we
men women get turned on with their ears
that's the way I would describe it I
think women economic Liberation and
Independence is Paramount you know the
thing that was the hardest thing in my
life growing up you know whatever trauma
I had was not having wasn't not having a
dad in my life it was that me and my mom
didn't any [__] money and it was
humiliating for us it was very hard on
her it was emotionally very trying on
her because she felt like she was
failing as a mother so I think women
Absolut women making a lot of money is a
collective victory of our society it is
hugely important and wonderful we should
do nothing to get in the way of that
that doesn't in any way though obviate
the fact that a man's opportunity sexual
currency and place in our society
is almost going to have an R of one
regardless of how many subscriptions to
the Atlantic or the New York Times you
have if his economic viability and I
just don't I think it's gotten worse I I
don't think it's got you used to be able
to if you were a High character kind of
cool interesting nice guy who was a
principal at a junior high school you
had sexual currency now I think you can
be a [__] [__] but if you've sold
$10 million in DOA coin you can get laid
and and it's just getting worse because
our capitalist economy is providing so
many advantages solely based on money
and it sends the wrong signal but I just
tell I just tell dudes you have to be
economically viable and some of that is
just having discipline around saving
money and showing that you have your
active maybe you don't make a lot of
money but I'm responsible I'll be a good
mate I'll be a good partner maybe you're
making more money to me but I'll bring
discipline you know I I I know how to
fix [__] I I can be a good
but one of the things I really am
worried about in America is just
everything has become About the
Benjamins character is being squeezed
out by
money God that sounded
awful I want to ask you have you ever
felt what Scott describes have you ever
felt that your sort of sense of
selfworth equates to how much money you
have because I felt that I don't think I
as much have money equals identity and
selfworth but I do think for many people
there's a sense that money equals
security and so we're all chasing that
dollar which is security but I think for
men it's much stronger I don't relate to
what you're talking about yeah so this
is I've never actually asked a woman
this before but um it's the number one
topic of conversation in my group chat
with my boys is how much are we working
Saturday and Sunday to make more money
make ourselves more successful and then
one of my friends who's not in my group
chat but one of my extended friends went
through financial hard hardship
and um he's in the leadup to starting a
family Etc and he went through a moment
where he was going to be declared
bankrupt and he was
inconsolably um depressed his partner
was fine she was kind of like you know
we'll get through this but he as it was
like his he actually said to me he goes
I've never quote I've never felt more
worthless and that's something that I've
heard echoed by many men who go you know
go through sort of economic uh Financial
roller coasters and that was actually
one of the stats in that report the boys
reporter Richard Reeves talks about this
I think that's actually where it comes
from so Richard Reeves says that the
number one cause of death for young men
under 15 is suicide and that men in
general the things that they describe in
their notes when they commit suicide are
these
words worthless and useless and so if
men feel like their identity and their
value and their worth comes from money
when they don't have money or they can't
be a provider and they're sort of on the
edge of Society then they're literally
opting out sometimes with their
lives okay I want to take the
metaphorical iPad and ask you guys some
questions because I feel like I've kind
of said what I want to say about this
topic but I'm sure there are just
millions of people that look up to both
of you as symbols of masculinity Scott
this is true right moms talk to you all
the time and say how can I help my son
and so like there's things that I want
to know because this topic is the thing
I'm most passionate about I want to
spend the next five years really helping
with this problem and the mating Gap but
I don't know that men will listen to me
but they will listen to you so I want to
learn from you so if you could teach a
dating boot camp to all guys and even
talk about what you would have them
unlearn what are some of those
messages I would dating boot camp yeah
um or being a human boot camp let's just
extend we have module one comedy oo
because the only thing that got me laid
when I was broke was I was like slightly
funny sometimes yeah I could be broken
impr this could be just this yeah keep
going um something around confidence
which is just standing I noticed that
posture correlates to dating success so
I'd have men learn to to stand up
straight and to control their posture
and take up more space and I mean that
in the nicest possible way which is
don't be shriveled so like stand up
standing up straight which is obviously
one of the things that going to the gym
does it kind of pulls you out a little
bit as well typical um but going out of
fashion male manners
open up the door I still open up the
door for my girlfriend every single day
even though apparently they went through
a phase where that was seen as like not
okay to do but I've always taken great
pride in it and funnily enough opening
up the door for my partner makes me feel
good I'm like doing it for selfish
reasons it makes me feel like a man it
makes me feel strong also like when a
bus comes I love the fact that I put my
hand across my girlfriend that for me
makes me feel like a man I love that
when we cross a road I'm the one that's
looking out I love that I stand on the
the roads side of the pavement Etc so I
teach men these kind of behaviors and
definitely going to the gym and then as
Scott said like entrepreneurship or
making some money that would be Central
to my boot C I'll give you one
more it would be conflict resolution and
this goes to like the emotional empathy
point one thing that I struggle with or
at least I struggled with until my
girlfriend coached me and I did this
podcast so many times that I learned
some lessons is just how to deal with
conflict um when when the spiring
partner is a woman because men in
Conflict we have a certain way typically
but learning the skill of hearing and
understanding your partner and which is
very difficult and like listen this
might just be me I find it incredibly
difficult to sit and to listen to my
partner for 90 minutes when she tells me
indirectly all the things I did wrong
I've had to learn the skill of doing
that and I I sat here with someone who's
a psychologist and said um she they they
said to me if you're a man you have to
learn the skill of sitting down for n 90
minutes a week and letting your partner
tell you everything that they're feeling
and going through with my boys we don't
do that when we go on holiday it is
total silence we what we're eating
[__] Pringles and watching the game
when but when I'm with my partner and
I'm sure when she's with her friends
it's talking so I I always I I've
developed the skill now of just like
sitting and listening and then sometimes
I take notes and then sometimes I repeat
back to her what she just said to me and
this is totally alien to me and it hurts
when I do it it like hurts and I find it
so uncomfortable
like I find it really really
uncomfortable to do that even though
this is something you spend hours a week
doing for 100% it's so unnatural to me
but you've worked on it I've worked on
it yeah I did it like three days ago my
girlfriend said I was traveling around
the world we were in I don't even know
what country we're in she goes I I've
got some things I want to talk about um
can we put some time in the calendar do
you have 60 minutes I'm I've gone off
stage in Sweden I put in 60 minutes into
my calendar she video calls me and she
talks to me for about 45 minutes I don't
have anything to say I'm so and I just
sit there and listen and in between the
lines it's like things I could do better
she's she's not blaming me or anything
but it's it's hard for me my boys would
never do that our friendship isn't
contingent on those things so that's
what I would say I love that like I
don't know if that you relate to that
but I think about this a lot with my
boys and I think kind of the three legs
of the stool are provider I'm probably
over focused on the economics that
doesn't necess mean making a lot of
money but at least being disciplined and
responsible about it developing skills
certific having a plan right be don't be
the guy ordering a bottle of Grey Goose
at 2 in the morning like I'm going home
because I got to get up you know I have
I have a
plan
and you know I have a vision for how I'm
going to be a good provider a protector
good manners your default system is
protection you you constantly talk speak
well of people behind their backs you
hear someone being critical of someone
else your
inclination is to defend them you don't
demonize special interest groups your
default setting if somebody needs help
anywhere or is being threatened it just
it's so heartbreaking to me that women
feel unsafe when they see men when they
see a group of men coming down the
street survey show women are inclined to
cross the street and it just feels like
from an early age men need to be taught
anyone smaller anyone more vulnerable
than you anyone in a special interest
group you're def fault is protection
that's what men do think about
masculinity a soldier a cop a fireman
what do they do at the end of the day
they protect that is your default
operating system as a move to protection
and then
procreator I think you should want to
have sex I think you should be willing
to take risks I tell my boys I did this
for a while they can't get back in the
house unless they talk to a
stranger and my oldest no problem hey
what's going on what my youngest not as
easy just go up and pet their dog I
think there are so many men out there
that have no willingness or ability to
open
to you know to just say hi where are you
from to just open and to want a romantic
relationship is a wonderful thing
there's nothing wrong with that modulate
your porn
decide ask yourself would you want to
have sex with you get strong get fit get
get your act together smell nice groom
if you can't dress well find someone who
can dress you and initiate contact and
want to have a relationship with someone
that's a wonderful thing that Mojo is
the the most purposeful wonderful thing
in my life is that I'm raising two
patriotic decent men and it started with
me really wanting to have sex with this
woman I saw at the pool at the Raleigh
Hotel right and I know that sounds crass
it's like I looked at her and thought I
am really attracted to this woman so I'm
going to take a risk in the middle of
the day without the benefit of alcohol
I'm going to walk up and introduce
myself to her and another guy and woman
she was with hey where are you guys from
and then 18 months later our first son
was born middle named Raleigh after the
hotel take risks be want to have meeting
opportunity
you're a provider your default system is
a protector and there's nothing wrong
with wanting to be a
procreator I love everything you said
and then one thing was going through my
head as you said it was it feels really
sad that in this moment at time we have
to tell people to become procreators
don't you feel like there's something
sick in our society if that has to be
taught evolutionarily all of our
software is towards procreation like
that is we are wired yet people are so
sick from the food that they eat from
all the medications that people are on
from all the pornography from all the
technology that you literally have to
teach your sons the importance of
procreation and that's why I'm here and
that's why I'm really freaked out by all
of this stuff because we are at a point
in society where in South Korea of a
hundred people of childbearing age they
are going to produce 12 grandchildren
based on a seven birth rate and the fact
that you talk about the PE of
procreation like I'm so worried about
our society it's 60% of 4 of 30y olds 40
years ago used to have a kid now it's
27% so when I was on the plane on the
way here I told this woman who was
sitting next to me what I was going to
be talking about and her gut reaction
was oh why do we have to worry about
that women are doing better than men
like great let us do that for the first
time in history like her gut reaction
was why is this a problem I then I
started telling her these stats around
lowest um marriage rate near we're
approaching the lowest marriage rate in
US history the birth rate has gone down
20% in 20 years and she didn't know
these numbers and I feel like people are
afraid to talk about this topic because
they think it's a zero sum game where
when men lose women win and vice versa
but right now we're all losing there's
huge economic impact too because it used
to be 12 people working age to support
every senior now it's 3 to one if we
don't have kids we're going to go into
economic decline yeah South Korea is
replacing its Nursery schools with its
nursing homes like they are the anti-
example for us and I think people need
to be paying attention by 2050 about 40%
of the population will be senior
citizens in the labor force could have
hared within the next 40 years the bank
of Korea warns that if current trends
persist the Korean economy could begin
Contracting in 10 years
time and this presents a national
service risk as the country relies on
its conscripted military this will fall
by hundreds and hundreds of thousands of
people by 2025 the half oh my gosh could
fall from 250,000 troops to 125,000
troops politics is the last thing I
wanted to talk about and how this sort
of intertwines with um everything we've
talked about today obviously Trump is
now in power and um as we saw in the
data and it was touched on earlier on
young men have become more right leing
and more conservative than ever
before the left hasn't necessarily
offered the best Best vision of
masculinity the young men is something
Scots talked about previously I was
wondering I think this morning in the
hotel I was wondering I was like how are
how is the left going to get men
back is that possible because the vision
of masculinity this is something Scotts
talked about that the left portrays is
not doesn't seem to be in line with all
the things we've just described that we
feel intuitively as men the things we
think are important like economic
viability being strong you know all
that's SK goovers
well on the right they've
conflated masculinity with coarseness
and cruelty the two kind of Role
Models you know president Trump who in
my opinion
demonstrates a lack of Grace and a lack
of empathy and a lack of kindness and
Elon Musk is concurrently being sued by
two women for sole
custody of their their kid because he
hasn't seen the kid I mean is that those
are the role models we want for young
men and on the left their vision of
masculinity is act more like a woman I
don't think that's helpful either I went
to the Democratic National
Convention and there was a parade of
special interest groups everyone was
represented except for the group that
needs the most representation right now
in my view and that is young men if you
go to the DNC website they list 16
special interest groups and they say who
we serve they call it out who we
serve Asian Pacific Islanders seniors
the disabled
immigrants black Americans and I added
it up it's 74% of the US population and
when you say you're actively advocating
for
74% you're not advocating for the 74%
you're discriminating against the 26%
and who are the 26% young men is this a
consequence of Dei I think that's part
of it I think there's been so many
groups that have been discriminated
against and the the way I would just
Loosely describe the Democratic party is
we have the right ideas and then we just
take it to too far you know there were
women have gotten a raw deal so they
need Advantage you know gays have been
persecuted people non-whites have had
there were 12 black people in 60 years
ago in Princeton Harvard and Yale
combined that was a problem this year
more than 60% of Harvard's Freshman
Class identify as non-white so I think
we got to get out of identity politics
but the notion I I this this it largely
came from the left this notion of toxic
masculinity there's no such thing
because there's violence there's people
are criminals there's people who are
unkind that means they're not masculine
masculinity is being a protector a
provider a procreator and the Democratic
party seems to believe that leaning into
anything around your advantage of being
male in terms of your strength your
kindness you're wanting to procreate
you're initiating sexual contact or sex
romantic interest
is somehow a threat and somehow toxic I
just think they've sent absolutely the
right wrong signal and into that void
has stepped basically thinly veiled
misogyny that is just so ugly you know
the the the and and he Trump flew right
into it the reason Trump won this
election in my view is the groups that
pivoted hardest from Blue to Red 2020 to
2024 were Latinos were sick of being
categorized by their identity but
numbers two and three were people under
the age of 30 especially males who are
not doing very well and feel like Donald
Trump feels their pain and women age 45
to 64 and my thesis is that's their
mothers because if your son isn't doing
well you don't care about territorial
sovereignty and Ukraine or transgender
rights you just want to change my son
isn't doing well those are the people
that whisper to me in the streets about
these conversations it's the 40 to 55y
old mother who has a son who doesn't
feel like she can speak up but says to
me privately that she's worried about
her her kids and actually we had some y
some mothers right in all of which
wanted to stay Anonymous saying this
exact same thing they've got an
18-year-old son they're super concerned
they've got a 16-year-old son the son
looks lost um as the stats show from the
report they're not leaving home in the
same way that women their daughters
leave home but they don't know what to
do about it so for those parents that
are listening now we can't change
society
um what would you recommend a parent of
a young
boy does first thing is forgive yourself
there's this
natural part of a separation where and I
think this is true of girls but
especially boys where to make the
separation easier we don't get along
with our parents in our senior year in
high school
and that doesn't mean your son doesn't
love you that doesn't mean your son's
not going to figure it out but to
forgive yourself
there's but going back to more
actionable things try and get male uh
try and get men involved in his
life um and then you know dumb stuff
like my mom made sure I was in Boy
Scouts my mom when I got caught from the
high school basketball and football team
she enrolled me in City League so I
could continue to play sports but it was
mostly she was ensured that I had men in
my life and I think that was really
really important for me but I you know I
would just say that I feel like I need
to coach men more like what I say to boy
one of the first thing I say to boys I
had lunch with and was never I had lunch
with someone who's a fairly famous news
anchor and her son and I asked the mom
to EXC they started going at it and I
asked the mom to excuse herself and I
said to the mom I'm like you realize
this is the only person in your life
ever that wants you to be more
successful than you you just got to cut
this [__] out this woman is not your
enemy
because and I heard that and I was sh I
was a bit ashamed because I remember
like being such an [__] to my mother
you know so I think but I think I could
say that to him because I could look him
in the eyes and say what the [__] you
doing so I just think that male
involvement for single
mothers and I think men are really
willing to get involved whether it's
someone down the street a coach your you
know a sibling your brother whatever it
is but I do think again the research
shows that the the the point of failure
is when a boy loses a male role model
and also to forgive yourself being a
single parent with a son I think that's
hard I just think it's hard Logan you've
got some questions I can see right pce
of paper I do have some questions for
Scott but I would love for you to answer
them too so one of them is what is
something about being a man that you
learned growing up that you have had to
unlearn
and I'm wondering specifically and how
you're raising your sons to avoid some
of those
things I think a
great proxy for masculinity and manhood
is and Richard reev introduced me to
this I think it's so powerful and that a
surplus
value it's not about a religious
ceremony it's not about having sex it's
not about an age it's about getting to
the point of surplus
value you create more tax revenue than
you absorb I say to my boys your
negative value look at all the resources
going into look at all the love we love
you so much more than you love us your
teachers are spending all this time in
energy and you're giving you aren't
giving anything back at some point that
needs to Pivot so creating more tax
revenue noticing people's life
registering more complaints from other
people than you are complaining
protecting people you know adding
Surplus value so you know these Notions
that
and and I wasn't that guy I wanted more
from everyone else than I was giving I
was the guy that's when someone honked
to me I was a guy that sped up and honk
back to restore the universe to its
place if a Delta if a if a ticket
counter agent at the airline counter was
rude to me I needed to get back in their
face to restore Harmony to the universe
because I'm a [__] baller and what
you realize is being a man is
occasionally taking a hit right it's
having Surplus value it's noticing
people's lives it's listening to
complaints it's occasionally thinking
well maybe this person who com me off in
traffic I don't know what's going on
with them maybe their kid has diabetes
maybe they're going through divorce it's
adding more value than you're taking and
until the age of like 40 I looked at
every relationship am I getting more out
of this than I'm giving and if I'm not
I'm out and what you realize is good
business Partnerships you add as much or
more value than your partners good
relationships you witness the person's
life you make them feel [__] awesome
if you leave this world a little bit in
debt that's the whole point that's the
whole point or a little bit the world's
in debt to you that's the win and I used
to think as a young man that meant I
needed to exit the relationship I'm not
getting more money or Services than I'm
giving I'm not getting more kindness
than I'm not giving I'm not getting more
hot experiences with this romantic
partner than they're giving me I'm out
no it's the other way around being a man
is Surplus value yeah I've never thought
about that before but it's so true that
like as a man you should aspire to be
considered
generous and actually the first time
someone called me generous was like such
an unbelievably wonderful compliment to
me because it means that people see you
as someone that's giving things but to
answer your question for me it was just
um a willingness to express my emotions
when I'm struggling that's like the
that's always been the difficult thing
for me especially because of everything
I've said earlier about wanting to be
strong wanting to be a provider there
are going to be moments where regardless
of how well you play the the game of
life you're going to struggle and I did
not have the tools I still really don't
have great tools for this but to turn to
someone and say I'm really struggling
with this and not to feel
emasculated um and I would say that
because as a
man pretty much the only person you have
in your life typically that you can turn
to is your your your your romantic
partner that's also the last person you
want to turn to and say you're
struggling because again for me that
felt like I was being emasculated so I
remember the day very vividly when I was
like 30 years old turning to my
girlfriend and like running the
experiment of letting her know that I
was struggling with
something and how difficult that was but
the only reason I did it was because I
almost felt like I had no [__] choice
I I'd like gotten to the point I was
like I need to tell someone this and she
was the the only person and I still
don't think I'd tell my my guy friends
everything I would tell them some things
but I don't think I'd tell them
everything and when I look at the stats
around mental health and depression
which are absolutely horrific and some
of these quotes that we had from some of
the guys that wrote Into the show this
guy Liam said for me the biggest
challenge that young men face today is I
feel like I'm striving for meaning but I
can't find it anywhere I struggle to
even sleep at night with some form of
substance because my brain is constantly
firing different scenarios at me that
I'm failing in my life when I am alone
with my thoughts it's like having
never-ending lesson about how useless I
am and how I need to change everything
in my life and the hardest part is I
can't even tell anybody this because I
would feel weak and then this guy
Jeffrey wrote in and said my entire life
I've never felt like I was good enough
like I could never earn my place in
society and even though I think I've
achieved some things by the age of 18 I
still feel like deep inside I will never
be enough and I'm still not enough and I
can't tell
anybody and I think that's a problem
that's quite unique to men it might be a
problem unique to my upbringing but I
just don't have the tools so when I look
at the stats around depression and Men
killing themselves 75% of suicides in
the UK are men and 75% of the worldwide
are men and suicide as you said I think
earlier as the leading cause of death
amongst young men in 50 countries yeah
if you feel that meaningless and you
feel that worthless and you don't have
anyone to console about it to maybe tell
you that you're wrong you know that's
why when Scott said that you don't
necessarily buy the research that women
are looking for someone who's
emotionally intelligent fine then don't
do it for your partner do it for
yourself yeah I just saw the stand up
special by kumel nanani it's it'll I'm
sure it'll like come out on streaming
soon but the last 20 minutes was pretty
incredible basically turned from like
sort of silly standup into kind of like
his Ted talk so he told this amazing
story about how one day he was speaking
to the press and he said I started to go
to therapy when there were a bunch of
bad reviews about my movie because I
realized so much of my identity was tied
up in external factors and this turned
into headlines around the world that
said bad review land Kum nanian therapy
and he was really frustrated by this so
in the standup special he took the five
most popular things that people said
criticizing him and he broke down each
one so for example one of them was oh
boohoo poor you know super rich movie
star feels sad about bad reviews we
should all feel sad for him and he's
like no you don't have to feel sad for
me but I can feel sad for me and he went
through all these things and he talked
about his therapy journey and how before
therapy he thought I just don't
experience negative emotions I don't
experience sadness and through therapy
he understood oh I experience sadness
all the time but I don't allow myself to
feel it so it just comes out as anger so
he told a story about talking to his dad
on the phone his dad had just been in a
car accident but was fine and then he
helped his dad through that experience
and then a few hours later he's like
where the [__] is my Ninja Turtle
t-shirt and it's like he needed therapy
to explain to him he's not upset about
the T-shirt he's upset about his dad but
I think that the fact that he you know
in his 40s or however old he is had to
learn that it makes me feel like
everyone needs to learn that if it's not
for a romantic partner then it's for
yourself because a life sucks if you
can't cry you can't express emotions you
don't have people to talk to and so
forget about attracting a mate just not
killing yourself just being a happier
person I think we just need more room
for men to express
emotions the first time I went to a
therapist was when I was about about 30
30 1 and I put it off for so [__]
long for this reason because every part
of it made me feel like emasculated and
as a man you're like I know I can deal
with everything myself and I've got this
like like I said when the bus comes I
put my hand in front of my girlfriend
I'm always the protector so when you
find yourself in a position like these
men who've written into the show where
you feel meaningless or you feel
hopeless or there's some other challenge
in your life you think it's your job to
fix well I I thought it was like my job
to fix and also like maybe because I've
been a CEO since the age of of 18 I'm
always like holding for for everybody so
you learn to like keep a [__]
straight face the business is on fire we
have no money to pay 170 people's wages
and it's Friday and they're expecting
like you learn this skill of like
numbness and that doesn't serve you when
you're trying to resolve something and
this is why I think corn uh gambling
addiction become the Avenue because
there's not another Avenue to to sort of
take pressure off the pressure valve
so yeah difficult it's difficult the way
you the email you just read from that
young man I I've stopped and it sounds
crash I can't handle the emails I get
anymore I'm getting so many emails from
young men who are
just I mean you like you read an email
like that and you just like it's
devastating you know I haven't gotten
over the death of my father I'm living
alone I've become addicted to op I mean
you just hear this [__] like I know I
have value to add I just can't figure it
out or I mean just there's just so many
of these men out there and I think a lot
of it is I always looked to economics
I'm like we've got to figure out
vocational programming I think we should
have national service so people feel a
sense of identity and connection and
purpose some of the lowest levels of
young adult depression are in Israel
despite all the existential threats
because they all serve in the IDF for
two to three years I think we need more
freshman seats at colleges I think we
need more third places where people uh I
think a lot of it comes down to
economics and policy programs I think
there's a lot we can do to help young
men but in the US it's now 77% moving to
80% suicides it's 4 to one if there was
any special interest group you go into a
Morgan America and five people di by
Suicide four men if that was any other
special interest group versus the
control group they'd weigh in with
programs but because of the enormous
Advantage I registered and let's be
honest it was enormous basically all
Prosperity In America which was
unprecedented was crammed into 30% of
the population basically white males so
we just had we had staggering
advantage and now 19-year-old males are
paying the price for my advantage
there's really a lack of empathy for
them and what I do think is hopeful is
that
s and women in society now realize that
the
country and women are not going to
continue to flourish if men are flailing
and it finally feels like we're having a
real program the governor Marilyn
Westmore has said that his Focus for his
administration this is a governor of a
state a liberal state is going to be on
helping the state's young men I mean
that took such [__] balls for him to
say that and you know what the populists
received it well because on the ground
people are feeling it they're really
feeling how much young men are
struggling so I'm actually quite hopeful
that we've turned a corner in terms of
the dialogue because when I started
talking about this four or five years
ago and right away oh you're massage
your hair wasn't on fire when women were
I mean just oh it was such there was
such a gag reflex it has changed so
dramatically in the last four or five
years where do we send these guys
that's a great question and I wish I had
a list of resources I'm trying to
assemble it around all
right I mean I'm I'm involved with it
because it's difficult to discern
between ordinary young adult or
adolescent problems and when a kid's
suicidal I wish I had some sort of AI
filter that would go this kid needs help
right away like there here are some
resources here are some men's groups you
know and I do a shitty job I can't talk
to all of them a couple of them I take
the laser I say here's 500 bucks do
better help online therapy I'll pay for
your first four sessions yeah just be
but I got to be honest I don't know I
mean I think we should put together this
list of resources and I feel like there
are good guys out there I put Chris
Williamson in this group I put both of
you out there podcasts are how a lot of
modern wisdom is being expressed right
now right you don't go to church you get
your sermon through your airpods so like
who are the guys that are saying healthy
things and I feel like if we can fill
their ears with the healthy messages of
masculinity we are taking away the space
and the attention from the people that
are really profiting from these negative
messages I think you need a place to
send the people who email you and I I I
appreciate the offer and we should do
this but we should have a list that says
all right what what are you struggling
with and here are some here are some
resources or things you should think
about but even what you both said to my
answer or to my question around like
what's the Boot Camp or what would you
tell guys like that's not a crazy list I
think it's like for a lot of these guys
to have you as sort of a ra male role
model of like go to the gym make money
be kind look out for others like I just
feel like that can be condensed into and
maybe that's what your new book is but
like truly I think people are looking
for a script with the lack of religion
lack of institution we've lost all these
scripts that tell people what to do
let's write a new
script it's on you brother you're
younger you got more tread on your you
you've got you look at all these cameras
I'm I mean somebody's gonna watch this
and pull it together into all of your
advice but I'm just saying I like the
idea of a collective it needs to get out
there because if you don't fill the
space somebody else will and they
already are and it's not the messages
that you want to have the next
population the Next Generation having I
agree we'll talk about this camera
two man anything else you wanted to ask
us I know you see you're SC to her views
if you've got any other questions you
wanted to ask no I'm just really glad
that we're having this conversation I
feel like maybe I wouldn't have had this
conversation a year ago I do think the
tide is turning I think the title of the
report as Lost Boys is very helpful and
I just want to end with the message that
women don't have to do worse when men do
better and vice versa and let's raise up
everyone so that we're all thriving
and yeah let's help these Lost Boys And
also help women any closing points when
it's smad Scott oh well just a message
to young people in general The Arc of
Happiness is a smile and that is kind of
zero to 18 is prom football you know
making
out it's generally pretty happy the
least happy years for people are usually
kind of 18 to
45 economic stress relationships are
hard you probably are someone you love a
great deal gets sick and dies and if
you're struggling what I what I would
just say
is you know don't be afraid to reach out
for help but also realize that if you're
not a member of Parliament and you don't
have a fragrance named after you it
doesn't mean you're failing and to
forgive yourself and to recognize that
those are tough years I you know when my
first kid was born I tell this story a
lot it's supposed to be Angel singing
and bright lights I felt nothing but
shame I was 42 and I was broke I had put
everything into my tech company great
financial recession came along I think I
my account called me and said you're
worth a negative $2 million if we look
at your debts you're worth negative2
million and about that time my oldest
son had the poor judgment to come
rotating out of my girlfriend and all I
felt with this kid was shame like I have
failed I failed myself and now I failed
on an entirely new dimension as a
provider and a father that was the first
thing I felt when my son was born and I
wrote about it and I can't tell you how
many men I heard from that all I felt
when I had my first kid or kids was a
sense of embarrassment and that I was
already failing that energy that you
felt at that moment did you Channel it
into something or were you tempted
nausea nausea I was in the delivery room
and they were more worried about me and
they thought it was because I was
grossed out by birthing it was because I
was so ashamed I would just immediately
felt like oh my God how did I put myself
in a position where I'm a terrible
provider on day one I just felt a
tremendous amount of Shame and I think
most people when you talk to them at
some point have felt really down and
really like
embarrassed and I just don't think
that's anything unusual and you you you
want to you want to forgive give
yourself you want to say to yourself I
can add value to a company I can make
someone very happy you know and try and
surround yourself with people that make
you feel good about yourself and every
day just little baby steps write some
things down trying to exercise trying to
eat well I can tell when I'm getting
depressed and I have this method of
getting out of it I call it scaffa scafa
sweat it's like resets my operating
system clean try and eat really well at
home abstinence and when I say absence
abstinence from pot and alcohol both of
which I love and I'm really good at them
they add value to my life but when I'm
not feeling good I take them out of my
life because whatever's going on with my
sensors I just don't want to mess with
them f is um family I find being around
my boys is really important and then a
is affection I find affection being
around even if it's my dogs laying on me
or my boys I'll say to my boys let's
watch TV and my instinctively throw
their legs on mine not necessarily sex
but affection with my partner those are
the things that get me out of a dark
place so try and figure out if you can
what things help you get out of a dark
place but
recognize everyone struggles and I'm not
saying that you shouldn't reach out and
find help but everything online is
telling you you should be in a Gulf
Stream in parting in St Barts no that
that's just not that's not the real
world and try and build a support system
and also forgive yourself life is
happiness is a smile kind of 20 20 to 45
is usually you know it's full of a lot
of Joy but it's also full of a lot of
you know oftentimes a lot of anxiety do
you go to therapy no have you ever been
I did my first marriage we went to
marriage counseling and after the first
session we decided to get divorced so
I'm a little traumatized by therapy yeah
he got right to it saved me real money
yeah oh Stephen I wanted to add one more
thing I think an underappreciated
resource for men for building empathy is
reading fiction books so I'm in a book
club I read fiction all the time fiction
builds a lot of empathy because you are
truly Inside the Mind of somebody else
for two or 300 pages when I talk to guys
they so rarely read fiction do you read
any fiction none at all a lot of guys
that I talk to they say oh I read
non-fiction and there's so many lists
online of like the hundred non-fiction
books to get your MBA and it's like
we're all reading so much non-fiction on
our phone at all times read a book of
fiction get inside the head of somebody
else get inside the head of a woman I
think that for zero dollars at the local
library you can actually become a better
person do you know what's interesting
there there's a reason why men read
books about how to make money yeah
because it goes back to everything we've
said if I said to my boys boys we're
gonna start reading fiction that that my
my friends read stuff that's going to
help them build a business make money or
gain muscle mass yeah but can I convince
what what if what if you're single and
I'm going to say read this fiction and
you're going to get laid like why can't
we just reframe and change the narrative
on fiction we I mean I just feel like
there's so many examples of times that I
haven't really known what's going on
with the group and then I read a book
about that group and I'm not an expert
in them but I can think about them more
and I just feel like look if you are not
having success with women and you don't
have any women in your life read a
[__] book by a woman just a quick
anecdote when I was a senior in high
school and a freshman in college I
remember thinking I'm strange I I'm I'm
I remember feeling very insecure about
my own psychological makeup and that
didn't help and then I read a bunch of
John Irving novels the world according
to GARP Cider House roles and the people
in it were just so [__] strange it
made me feel better about myself I'm
like oh there's other weirdos out there
so what you say really resonates it made
me feel less self-conscious about how
unusual I thought I was um so I it just
dawned on me that that was a big help
for me wow Tik Tok is not going to give
you the empathy that spending 300 Pages
Inside the Mind of a person different
from yourself will thank you both um for
so many reasons Scott you're actually
writing a book at the moment which is
going to be published shortly we've
talked about it a few times what is the
title of that book and what is it
about well I I've determined I don't
know how it is for you with books but
basically your publisher does nothing
and then and then obsesses over the
title that's the value
that is very true so I had it work it
was supposed to be originally about
masculinity then I realized that I don't
have the skills of the domain expertise
to summarize masculinity so I change it
to work in progress notes on becoming a
man and I just talk about stories that
I've written about about some of the
things we've talked about today and
trying to use masculinity as a code I
think everyone needs a code whether it's
the military the religion their family
values and I think
masculinity can serve as a code if
defined correctly for young men but it's
just a series of like stories about
things I've gone through some of my many
ways I failed and what I learned about
trying to become a man trying to be a
good dad trying to be a good partner
when is it published when is it gonna be
published it'll be on the fall on the
fall okay and Logan you have an
incredible book which is I mean one of
the I think the book on this subject
matter called how to not dial alone the
surprising science that will help you
find love and what does someone discover
in that book well it's really about
understanding the blind spots that hold
people back from Finding Love and then
making a plan to overcome them I'm going
to link all of Scott's books and all of
Logan's book in the comments below for
anybody to read I also wanted to say a
huge thank you to the center of social
justice for making this report because
it's again it's caused a huge
conversation in the UK and now around
the world around Lost Boys um we have a
closing tradition on this podcast where
the last guest leaves a question for the
next guest not knowing who they're
leaving it for and the question I'm
going to ask both of you
is Logan what are you most scared
of I'm most scared of losing my
husband because he has had a brush with
death he had very serious bone cancer I
feel like we've just been through such
hard stuff with him medically that right
now I'm here today with you he's
climbing I was just thinking you know
what happens if something happens to him
with climbing and we have a one-year-old
daughter and so maybe the most obvious
answer is something that happened to my
daughter but for me is really something
to happen to my
husband SC what do you may SC of the way
I took that was what of my most worried
about I'm really worried about an
epidemic of
loneliness um from a societal standpoint
that people are starting to believe they
can disengage from
life and that leads to anxiety and
depression and polarization that makes
the world a less safe place personally
my fear has always been the same I'm
always worried that my kind of selfish
instincts
manifest in an ugly way and I end up
alone and old you know that's
my that's my biggest fear that I end up
dying under Bright Lights you know
surrounded by strangers that's my
biggest fear because your selfish
instincts manifest you do something
wrong in your relationship or you [__]
up your yeah just so my dad is not a
very my dad ended up my dad's basically
alone at 95 and some of his less some of
his lower character quality attributes I
see in myself and that's a fear my fear
is that you know end up dying surrounded
by strangers Steve do
yours the first thing that comes to mind
is my something happening to my partner
I just can't imagine I just see her as
this like perfect human being that was
like this Angel so thinking I just can't
imagine ever finding anybody comparable
so something happening to her finding
out she was sick I think is the first
thing that comes to mind it comes to
mind actually but above any anything in
my life and then I do have a little bit
of Scott's fear which he expressed there
which is that I will make bad decisions
based on I'm going to just say it just
like the Temptation Of Life and that'll
Lead Me Up lead me to be a bad father
not be around for my kids not be able to
be around for my kids and be
lonely and uh old and Rich
and
miserable it's like kind of a fear I've
always had it's interesting I said the
word temptation yeah because in the
world you know there's a lot of
Temptation there is people don't talk
about a
lot thank you skull thank you I want to
say thank you to you in particular
because you've been one of the leading
voices in this fight that's a generous
thing to say I appreciate that it's
absolutely not generous because it's
absolutely true when people think of
this subject matter they think of you
now and um you also stuck your neck out
and started speaking about this subject
long before it was okay to speak about
the subject and you spoke about it in
such an eloquent hilarious Wise Way that
both sides listened and I think you're
one of the key people on this subject
matter who's even allowed these kind of
reports to exist because I'm actually
not sure that if it wasn't for you um
reports like this would exist I think
you're wrong but I'll take it I think
I'm absolutely right like I actually
think I'm right because the reach you've
had on the subject matter is hundreds
and hundreds of millions of people
across the e clipse across the podcasts
you've done and like I said listen there
wasn't a lot of people saying it before
you could say you've actually given
cover to a lot of people you've even
given cover to me and it's because of
the the the wonderful science and art
that you um you deploy as it relates to
communication and
Logan thank you as well because you've
made the decision as well to lend your
voice to this subject matter which is
complicated and it's like problematic
and it's full of like landmines it feels
like but you're adding an incredibly
important perspective when that comes
from tremendous resear
live the experience and um you're a very
important I think individual in this in
this fight to to speak to speak and to
to sort of create a better world for our
young and Lost Boys thank you can I
thank Scott too knock yourself out you
know just to make you uncomfortable go
on okay yeah so as I've been talking to
people about my interest in this the
first thing they always say is oh the
stuff that Scott Galloway is talking
about and if you weren't talking about
it I don't think they would have anyone
to point to I but I just just need to I
feel like a plagiarist because the
majority of my good data comes from
Richard Reed I know that that's true but
the point is you are the most effective
Communicator in the world right now your
ability to turn stories and facts into
persuasion is something that no one else
is doing so you're taking Richard's data
and combining your lived experience and
you're getting this message out there in
a way that no one else is doing thank
you that's generous thank you and no one
else could reach both sides
in such an effective way which I think
is really important so again thank you
Scott thank you thank you for being so
generous of your time really appreciate
it we launched these conversation cards
and they sold out and we launched them
again and they sold out again we
launched them again and they sold out
again because people love playing these
with colleagues at work with friends at
home and also with family and we've also
got a big audience that Ed them as
Journal prompts every single time a
guest comes on the dire of a CEO they
leave a question to the next guest in
the diary and I've sat here with some of
the most incredible people in the world
and they've left all of these questions
in the diary and I've ranked them from
one to three in terms of the depth one
being a starter question and level three
if you look on the back here this is a
level three becomes a much deeper
question that builds even more
connection if you turn the cards over
and you scan that QR code you can see
who answered the card and watch the
video of them answering it in real time
so if you would like to get your hands
on some of these conversation cards go
to the diary.com or look at the link in
the description below this has always
blown my mind a little bit 53% of you
that listen to the show regularly
haven't yet subscribe to the show so
could I ask you for a favor if you like
the show and you like what we do here
and you want to support us the free
simple way that you can do just that is
by hitting the Subscribe button and my
commitment to you is if you do that then
I'll do everything in my power me and my
team to make sure that this show is
better for you every single week we'll
listen to your feedback we'll find the
guest that you want me to speak to and
we'll continue to do what we do thank
you so much oh
[Music]